text:Sure.	labels:So, let's see. It looks that you put-- You drink alcohol at least four times a week on average-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-and you usually have three to four drinks when you do drink.
text:Usually three drinks and glasses of wine.	labels:Okay. That's at least 12 drinks a week.
text:Something like that.	labels:Okay. Just so you know, my role, um, when we talk about alcohol use, is just to share information about risk and to help patients who want help. This is different than telling them what I think they should do. I don't do that.
text:Okay.	labels:Uh, what else can you tell me about your drinking.
text:Well, I usually drink when I'm at home trying to unwind and I drink while I'm watching a movie. And sometimes, um, I take a bath but I also drink when I take a bath sometimes.	labels:Okay. So, can I share with you some information on alcohol use?
text:Okay.	labels:Okay. So, there has been a lot of research on alcohol use and the guidelines we use in this country says that having seven or more drinks per week can raise the risk of health problems for women.
text:Hmm. Seven?	labels:Seven.
text:Wow. I knew my doctor didn't like me drinking the amount that I did but I didn't know that seven was the limit.	labels:Yeah, you're surprised to hear that?
text:Yes. What-what kind of health problems?	labels:Well things like heart disease, cancer, liver problems, uh, stomach pains, insomnia. Unfortunately, uh, people who drink at a risky level are more likely to be diagnosed with depression and alcohol can make depression worse or harder to treat.
text:Hmm. Well, that's not good news.	labels:Well, how do you think your drinking relates to the depression you've experienced?
text:Well, to be honest, I drink sometimes when I'm feeling down and I find it more interesting and not so blur.	labels:Okay. And how do you feel after you drink?
text:Well, then I feel blur again.	labels:So, there are some answers on this form here. Uh, less than monthly you drank more than you intended to.
text:Yes on occasion.	labels:And sometimes you feel guilty after you drink.
text:Sometimes I just don't like how much I drink. I sometimes finish a bottle in one night.	labels:So you're not proud of finishing a bottle?
text:No, it's not like I get crazy or anything but I just don't like the amount that I'm drinking.	labels:Right. By the way, binge drinking is defined for women as having more than, uh, three drinks and there are about five drinks in a bottle. So, you enjoy drinking wine because it helps make things, uh, a little bit more interesting when you're feeling down but at the same time you don't like drinking when you have more than you want it to and then the depression returns after you drink.
text:Mm-hmm. Yes, sometimes I feel worse after drinking.	labels:Where do you wanna go from here? What do you wanna change about your drinking habits?
text:Well, I don't think that I'm ready to cut down to seven drinks a week. That seems like a lot but I would consider cutting back to two drinks a night. I think that would be my goal.	labels:If I gave you a scale from 0 to 10, 0 being not ready at all to cut back on drinking and 10 being very ready, what number would you be at?
text:I'd say an eight.	labels:Okay. Why do you think it's not something less like a six?
text:Well, I'm more ready than a six because I'm ready to cut back on my drinking and I don't wanna make my depression any worse.	labels:What would help you cut back to two drinks?
text:Maybe having less wine in the house.	labels:Having less wine in the house will help?
text:Yes.	labels:What else besides drinking helps you relax and unwind in the evenings?
text:Well, I like to watch movies, read a book, and take a bath but sometimes I drink when I take a bath.	labels:So, it's not just wine that helps you relax. Um, there's reading a book, watching a movie, and taking a hot bath too.
text:Mm-hmm. Yes.	labels:Okay. So, it sounds like you have some reasons to cut back on drinking and you have ways to relax besides drinking and it sounds like you're pretty ready to cut back.
text:Yes.	labels:Great. I'd be interested to see how well you do on your goal in the next few weeks. Would you be willing to come back and talk to me about it?
text:Sure.	labels:Great. So, let's see how well you're doing with these new meds.
text:Sure.	labels:Okay. Uh, thanks for filling this out. Uh, looks like you use alcohol two to three days a week?
text:Yeah, but only on the weekend.	labels:Okay. And then when you do drink alcohol, you typically have five or six drinks.
text:Yeah. Uh, maybe a couple more.	labels:Okay. Well, the reason why I like to talk to patients when they fill out this form is because sometimes, uh, alcohol use can impact our health. Um, and my role is to be helpful. I can share some information with you about alcohol use, um, but I don't tell anyone what to do. It's always up to the patient to decide what they wanna do about their drinking. Um, so is it okay if we talk a little bit more about your alcohol use?
text:So, uh, are you saying I drink too much?	labels:How would you define drinking too much?
text:Well, I-- If-if I was getting fallen down drunk or if I drink every night. Um, it's not like I get sloppy drunk or anything.	labels:Mm-hmm. Well, in this country, the guidelines are men can drink up to 14 drinks a week or up to four on one occasion and still be low risk.
text:So I'm already at the week limit. And then I have four beers a night. Are you sure?	labels:So a limit of four a night doesn't feel right to you?
text:I have five or six beers when I go out with friends to a bar. It's not a problem for me.	labels:You're not alone in feeling that way. Uh, binge drinking can feel normal to some people.
text:Well, I don't consider my drinking binge drinking.	labels:Why is that?
text:I don't chug a lot of beers in a row. I have about five or six beers throughout the entire evening.	labels:Mm-hmm. Well, technically, we define binge drinking as having more than four drinks on one occasion.
text:But I'm healthy. What health problems are you talking about?	labels:Well, uh, we know if someone binge drinks over time, there's kind of two categories of risk. There's the short-term risk where someone who binge drinks is more likely to fall down, hurt themselves through an accident, uh, they're more likely to drive while under the influence. Uh, but over the long term, binge drinking can also, uh, cause things like heart disease, uh, different kinds of cancer, liver problems obviously, and then even mental health issues like depression and anxiety are more likely to happen.
text:Well, I didn't know about those things.	labels:Can I ask you, uh, what do you like about drinking alcohol?
text:Well, I-I like beer. I like the way it tastes, I like the way it makes me feel. Uh, like when I'm around friends and it's not a problem for me.	labels:And so what about your drinking do you not like or is there anything that worries you about your drinking?
text:Well, that was fine until I came here, uh, but now that I know about the health risk, uh, I have something I gotta think about.	labels:So, on one hand, you like how beer tastes, uh, it's part of your social life to some extent, um, but on the other hand, you don't like the idea of it posing risks to your health over the long term?
text:E-exactly.	labels:So weighing those things, you know, what you like about your drinking, what you don't like about your drinking, uh, where do you wanna go from here? Uh, what would you like to change about your drinking?
text:Hmm, I'm not sure. Uh, something I have to think about.	labels:Well, how about hypothetically if I were to ask you, how would your drinking have to impact your life in order for you to be ready to change your drinking?
text:Uh, I don't know. Maybe if I got sick or something, uh, maybe I'd wanna change things then.	labels:So if you experienced a negative consequence from your drinking, uh, that would feel meaningful to you?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. Well, I like to give this handout to patients. Uh, it defines risky drinking, it talks about what the consequences are, uh, and it also lists signs of what an alcohol use disorder is. So thanks again for taking the time to fill this out and being honest with me, uh, to talk about it. I provide better care, uh, when I know about my patient's substance use. When we come back for a three-month follow-up appointment for your ADHD, I'd also like to talk to you and check in about your alcohol use too, if that's okay with you.
text:Sounds good.	labels:Okay, great. See you next time.	episode:True
text:Well, doc, I know you told me that I need to lose weight. And even though the scale didn't show today, I was able to lose about 5 pounds, but then I gained it right back.	labels:Well, I appreciate you bringing your weight to the forefront. Do you mind if we explore this issue further?
text:No, by all means. I know we have to discuss it.	labels:All right. Uh, well, it sounds like you've been struggling with your weight recently. And I understand how difficult it is to lose the weight and then have it come back again. So, tell me what you did to lose that initial 5 pounds.
text:I started watching what I ate and I ate less. I've been eating more fruits and vegetables. I've also been walking a lot. I'm walking up to 20 minutes a day now. I saw the weight come slowly off, um, and I felt better. But then when I watched it come back on again, you know, I gave up.	labels:But you did have some success. Tell me how you felt when you lost the weight.
text:I felt great and I felt really proud of myself. I thought that this was something that I could do.	labels:Okay. Well, it sounds like you realized that when you lost the weight you feel better and that it's gonna affect your overall health. So, tell me what you think changed that caused you to gain the weight back.
text:Well, I think it's because I've been eating more fruits and vegetables, that- that's it.	labels:And how many servings of fruits and vegetables on average per day would you have?
text:To be honest, I have four or five -- four to six glasses of orange juice a day. Um, I have fruit for lunch and breakfast. I have, uh, usually one to two servings of a vegetable like lettuce or broccoli with thinner.	labels:John, it's very important that you recognize that some fruits, but especially fruit juice can contain a huge amount of calories. Did you know that a glass of orange juice has almost as many calories as a can of cola?
text:No, I didn't know. Um, but doesn't the fruit- food pyramid classify, um, fruit juice as a- a serving?	labels:You're absolutely right, but keep in mind that the food pyramid is to be used as a guideline only. When it comes to nutrition, we have to have a more personalized approach. So I have a hunch, and that is the excess fruit that you were consuming probably caused your weight rebound. What's your impression?
text:Well, this changes quite a bit. I mean, here I'm thinking that my fruit intake is making me healthier and actually it's making me fatter.	labels:Indeed. Let me ask you something, knowing what you know now, how important is it to you to lose the weight by decreasing the amount of juice that you're currently taking in?
text:Obviously, I need to cut back on the fruit juice. But boy, do I love that OJ.	labels:Oh, I understand. Let me ask you this, on a scale from 0 to 10, 0 meaning that there's no way you can do it, and 10 meaning that you're 100% confident that you can do it, how confident are you that you'll be able to reduce the amount of juice you're currently taking in.
text:Um, six or seven.	labels:All right. So, you're not a zero. So, that tells me that you've got some confidence that this is doable, this is something you certainly can do it. Why are you not a zero?
text:I guess it's because I know that I need to do it to lose the weight.	labels:So, you realize, again, that if you decrease the amount of juice you're taking in, you're gonna decrease your weight, you're gonna feel better, and you're gonna impact your po- health positively?
text:Yes.	labels:But you're also not a 10, and that tells me that there may be some obstacles to your success. What would it take for you to be a 10 or even an 8 or 9?
text:Getting the fruit juice of the house because I know if it's there I'll drink it. My wife does the shopping for us, so maybe if I ask her not to get the juice, that would solve it.	labels:Okay. Now, if the juice was still there, can you think of anything else you could do?
text:I suppose I could replace it with, um, a low-calorie drink or drink more water.	labels:Excellent. John, I get the impression that you want to stay in course with weight reduction. And the best way to do this will be to decrease the amount of juice that you're currently taking in. So if I saw you in two weeks and I asked you how much juice you're t- drinking and how you did it, what would you tell me?
text:I'd say I didn't have any and I substituted it with, um, sugar-free drinks.	labels:Excellent. Well, it sounds like you have a plan. Same scale, 0 to 10, how confident are you that you can, uh, make this happen?
text:A 10.	labels:I agree. All right. Well, you-you know what? I'm not gonna start any medications today. Your levels were a little bit off, but I think we can handle this from a purely lifestyle standpoint. What do you think?
text:Great. It sounds good to me.	labels:Excellent. I'll see you in two weeks.
labels:Okay, and so what I'm hearing is that you don't feel like your health is concerning you right now, or anything like that?	text:I-I-I feel fine.
labels:Okay.	text:I mean, my-my work is really man-manual labor-intensive so I'm usually working out in-in the hot sun the majority of the day, so I'm usually sweating out any like bad things I put in my system, so—
labels:Okay. Have you noticed putting on any weight, or anything like--?	text:Well, a little bit, but nothing too-- you know. I'm not blo- I'm not bloated or anything.
labels:Okay. Okay. And how about going to see the doctor? Have you gone to-- for a visit or anything recently?	text:Well, yeah, I've been to the doctor about maybe last year for a physical, but-- I mean, everything showed up to be fine, so—
labels:Okay. But you feel that you feel good?	text:Yeah.
labels:Okay. Um, and so what I hear is that you're-- you feel like your wife might be, uh, overreacting to this?	text:Well, I mean, not really overreacting. I know that she loves me and I know she-she wants me, uh, you know, live a long time and be healthy, but just sometimes, especially if you work a hard job, like kinda going out to eat at these places kinda makes you feel a little bit better about your situation.
labels:Sure. Sure. Okay. Um, and so one thing I'd just like to do is maybe give you some information on, um, maybe obesity or diabetes if you're interested or open to that. If you're, you know--?	text:Sure. [unintelligible 00:01:33]
text:Hi.	labels:It's been a while.
text:Yeah, it's been a while.	labels:This is something new.
text:Oh, oh, yeah, the—Yeah	labels:You got your lip pierced. How long ago did you get that done?
text:About a month.	labels:Hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:What made you decide to get-get a lip piercing?
text:Um, I don't know. I just felt like something different. I was getting bored and, I don't know, it's kind of nice to stand out a bit, I guess.	labels:Hmm.
text:Yeah, change.	labels:Yeah, and it looks nice.
text:Thanks.	labels:Um, I guess, you know, as your dentist, I have- I have a couple of concerns about lip piercings, oral piercings. I wonder what have you heard about how having an oral piercing can affect your-your teeth or your gums?
text:I don't actually, really. I-I mean, I'm sure that it might push on my gums or teeth, but I don't know how much it will impact that much. I've pretty good teeth. I don't know.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I don't really know [unintelligible 00:01:04]	labels:You do. you have beautiful teeth as I always tell you-
text:[laughs] Thanks.	labels:-every time you come in.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, I mean I have had some patients with oral piercings and they can erode some of the gum right, um, just right there at the front.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Um, so that's one-one thing, and the other is, um, I do see fair amount of chipped teeth-
text:Oh, yeah.	labels:-just from contact with it. I wonder what are your thoughts about that?
text:Well, I definitely don't want it mess with my teeth. I know I kinda already have low gums to begin with, like you've been telling me for a while, and I have to flo-floss, which I-	labels:Yes, flossing.
text:Um, which I'm not doing but, um, yeah, I guess, I don't really wanna wreck my teeth 'cause-- Yeah, I didn't really notice any of the chipping.	labels:There's nothing yet.
text:I guess I'm not paying attention to it.	labels:Yeah. There's certainly been-- There's no problems and you, as you said, only have had it for a short time.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Um, what would- what would make you decide, "This is something that's not right for me?"
text:I don't know, I guess if I started to see that it was actually causing a problem, then I might.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:But for now-- I mean, I just got and-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and it looks pretty cool.	labels:I guess that it does.
text:Yeah, I kinda-- Yeah.	labels:Yeah, it looks nice. So, you want to monitor it and-and-
text:Yeah.	labels:-really watch-
text:Yeah.	labels:-the effect? Okay.
text:Yeah. I guess if I really start to see a problem-- I mean, this might not last forever, but my teeth, I'm hoping-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-will kind of stick [unintelligible 00:02:30]	labels:Emily, you said it so well it-
text:Yeah.	labels:-the-the piercing might not last forever, but your teeth really are-
text:Yeah.	labels:-hopefully forever. So, okay, well thanks for-for talking about it-
text:Yeah.	labels:-with me, and also before I do the exam, you know, I'm always on your case about flossing, so maybe we can take [inaudible 00:02:46]-	episode:True
text:Hi.	labels:Hi, another session and another session where you are actually on time.
text:Yeah.	labels:You've done-- You've got a really good track record of, uh, being on time. Yeah? Do you realize that?
text:Yeah, no, it's easy.	labels:Yeah. Yeah. You know, I've been thinking about, um, thinking about you, and thinking about, um, that first meeting we had, and where you are now. So, wh-what do you think some of the changes are that-that you've made in this- in this, sort of, five-five to six weeks that we've been meeting?
text:Uh. Meeting's definitely helped.	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah. It's helped-	labels:Yeah?
text:-heaps.	labels:It's helped heaps?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah? So, what sort of things has it helped with?
text:Just, uh, someone to talk to and just someone to keep me busy and, kind of, keep me in check.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, what changes have you made, Billy?
text:Um, well, I said I went to the polytech and stuff-	labels:Mm.
text:-and I went back there and got another form and stuff, and just helping me with that.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. And, get-getting to the polytech and getting the forms, that's a pretty big deal.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah? I was thinking about the Billy, say, the Billy of six months ago. I'm wondering if the Billy of six months ago would've done that?
text:Nah. I didn't really think about it frankly.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, what shifted that made it that you were actually able to go to the polytech and get the forms? What's shifted in you?
text:I don't know. I just thought if, uh, I could get a job and stuff, doing stuff I like, uh, it'll make things easier.	labels:Mm.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Where have you got to with the forms? I mean, we talked about that quite a lot last time.
text:Yeah. Oh, I know. After talking to you, I got Donna to help me out, and that's just really helpful.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:[clears throat]	labels:Okay. So, what did you say to Donna?
text:[clears throat] Oh, I just said-- I said, "Uh, could you give me a hand with this?"	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And, like, she filled them up for me, and I told her what to write.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So, where did you get to in terms of telling her that, uh, reading and writing is not that [unintelligible 00:27:23] for you?
text:Just-- I-I asked her to fill that out for me because I said I'd be too messy.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, I was thinking about how that stuff about not feeling confident around reading and writing has, um, really got in the way for you.
text:Yeah.	labels:And I mentioned that's somewhere where you don't feel so confident, and I'm wondering what it would be like to feel confident with reading and writing. What difference would that make to your life?
text:Like, a big difference, but, like, it's not like I don't try.	labels:Mm.
text:Like, I'm just not really good with it.	labels:Yeah. Yeah, I can really see that you're making an effort. In fact, I can see that you're really making an effort in lots of areas, not just in terms of reading and writing.
text:Yeah. Like [unintelligible 00:28:13] if I'd got into polytech and stuff, so I think that's good.	labels:Mm.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, where are the forms now?
text:They're still at home.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah. If—	labels:So, what needs to happen next?
text:Just take them in.	labels:So, you actually have to deliver them to the polytech, do you?
text:Yeah. Uh, I think you can post them, but I'll just drop them in.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, when do you think you're gonna do that?
text:Uh, probably by the end of this week.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, by the end of this week, so by next time, when you come here, as in, those forms will be at the polytech?
text:Yeah.	labels:And what-what happens next in terms of what happens once the forms are there?
text:I don't know. I don't know if you have to interview or whatever, but I guess, course-- I don't even know any course that I'll do.	labels:Mm-hmm. So what's the- what's the-- Say, if you get on the course-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and, um, you're, like, real good with, uh, hands-on stuff, but the stuff around the manuals, and the assignments, and those sorts of things, um, don't feel so good. What-what do you think we need to do around helping you with that?
text:Well, um-- Well, I don't know. Hopefully, there's not so much of that stuff. Um, oh, well, I don't know. I could find out maybe someone who can help you, like, at the school, at the polytech, maybe somebody can help you out and stuff, or there might be computers there or something.	labels:Mm. Yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:So, all these changes that you've- that you've made, um, Billy, where-where is the offending fitting into all of that now?
text:Not really fitting in. It kind of just gets in the way.	labels:So, offending gets in the way of the life that you're starting to lead?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah? So, what temptations have you had to, kind of, go back to offending?
text:Like like getting on the piss, but with Donna, there kind of keeps me busy.	labels:Mm. So the drinking is something that we talked about can make it easier for you to offend.
text:Yeah.	labels:So you've noticed that when you've been drinking that those feelings are coming back again, or?
text:Yeah. I just wanna have a bit of a laugh and like go smash some windows or go and nick a car or something, but yeah. It's kind of harder to think straight.	labels:It's harder to think straight when you've been drinking?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Yeah. And so you've got Donna around at the moment?
text:Yeah.	labels:And that's helping keep you in check, as you said?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. What would happen if she wasn't around say or at a party or?
text:I'd probably just go be stupid with my mates.	labels:Okay. So Donna at the moment who kind of being there is like a strength?
text:Yeah. 'Cause if there's just like if a mate said they're gonna go out and pick a car or something, she just bumps them out and then-then I don't know. She say that's stupid and stuff. And I don't know. It gives me something to do.	labels:Mm. What do you think?
text:Just kind of stupid. Well, it's pointless, but still a bit of a laugh.	labels:Mm. Yeah. 'Cause I was thinking about that dream that you've got about the job and a life with Donna and-
text:Mm.	labels:-kids and stuff like that and how you were saying that the offending doesn't fit in with that dream or that idea.
text:No.	labels:So there's that on the one hand, but on the other hand, there's the kind of immediate, um, feeling when you've had a few to drink and you're with your mates and it feels like it would be a bit of a laugh?
text:Yeah.	labels:So you've got-got those two things going on at the same time. Yeah?
text:Mm.	labels:And it sounds like sometimes when you're in there with your mates and had a few drinks, it's hard to hold on to that vision of the future.
text:Yeah. You don't really think about that. Well, just in the moment.	labels:Okay. So what-wh-- in the moment, what are you thinking?
text:Just have a bit of fun. Not really thinking.	labels:Not really thinking or simply not thinking beyond the next-
text:Mm.	labels:-kind of minute or so-
text:No. Just, like, it's not normally my idea, like someone else would just suggest it and you kind of just, yeah.	labels:So it's not your idea. And you also go along with it?
text:Yeah. You can't really be like, "Oh no," just give me shit.	labels:Mm-hmm. What would happen if you say no?
text:Just like, it can be shit and I still do it. They just-just call me a pussy or whatever and I don't know. And they'd talk me into it probably.	labels:Mm-hmm. So it's hard to actually say no to your friends-
text:Yeah.	labels:-'cause of what they- what they thought of you.
text:They'd just think I was joking, yeah.	labels:Yeah. So I'm wondering what the-the thinking, 'cause, um, one of the things that's really changed for you is being with Donna.
text:Yeah.	labels:So I'm wondering, you know, most of them butt-butts head on your friendships with those- with those guys.
text:I don't see them as much, but like she gets along with them aye, so-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I don't think, like, I am not sure they like it.	labels:Then so when you're-- so you're spending less time with them and more time with Donna?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. And you're saying you're kind of hanging out with her and going to movies and stuff? Yeah. And that means you're spending less time with your-- with those people that have actually led you in trouble in the past?
text:They don't lead me into trouble. But-	labels:Okay. So tell me- tell me what it is that they do so I get a better understanding of it.
text:Uh, like it's my choice though, they don't make me.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah. I know it's just having grown up with, it's just what we've always done.	labels:Okay. So that's just what you've always done.
text:Yeah.	labels:But we're also talking about this idea that it doesn't fit with what your goals are or what your hopes are?
text:Mm.	labels:Yeah. Mm. How would you like it to be?
text:My life? Well, what do you mean?	labels:Mm, well the stuff about when you're in the moment. Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:When you've had a few drinks and you kind of go and get into trouble. How would you like that to be different?
text:I don't know. Just more or less like if Donna was there and maybe if my mates got some girlfriends or something like that would calm them down too.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So just hang out instead of go and do stuff, like stupid stuff.	labels:Okay. So-so Donna's helped calm you down and you'd like, um, them to calm down too?
text:Yeah, 'cause then we could hang out together and stuff-	labels:Mm.
text:-with our girlfriends and stuff.	labels:So am I hearing that it's tricky in some ways to hang out with them sometimes-
text:Yeah.	labels:-now that you're with Donna?
text:Yeah. Cause I like I feel guilty not spending my time with, yeah, Donna. Like, I miss my mates, like, I get lonely and stuff, but even though they get me into trouble, but-	labels:Hmm.
text:-just, kind of, feel stoked that-that I see them on the weekends and stuff.	labels:Okay. So-so what's the definition, for you, of a good mate?
text:It's, like, loyal-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-yes, someone who's got my back.	labels:So, someone who's loyal, someone who's got your back, yeah? What else? What else is really your definition of a really good mate?
text:That's about it. It's-- yeah.	labels:Hmm.
text:Someone who'll stand up for you.	labels:Oh, so, someone who'll stand up for you?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah? Yeah. Sounds like a really strong definition of a good mate-
text:Yeah.	labels:-for you? So, I'm wondering about, um, whether good mates lead you into trouble, if it's something you wanna do. If you got something different that you wanna do, what would a good mate do in that situation?
text:I mean, support me.	labels:Yeah. How-how would you wanna be supported, Billy?
text:Just don't give me shit about, I don't know. Um, yeah, just, if I- if I don't wanna go do something, don't, like, don't give me shit about it.	labels:Mm. Okay, so that's-that's the kind of support that a really good mate would give you? It sounds-
text:Yeah.	labels:-like these guys have been around for you-
text:Yeah, yeah, they [unintelligible 00:36:38]	labels:-for quite some time, and they're really important to you.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Okay. So, I'm wondering how we can get to that point where, yeah, you can say, "No, I don't wanna do that," and they're supportive of you?
text:Mm.	labels:What do you think it would take?
text:Just they know that I'm serious.	labels:Okay. So, how would they know you're serious?
text:I guess, like, if they actually know I'm going to polytech and stuff that they might understand.	labels:Okay.
text:But, like I feel guilty if they wanna go and have fun, and I'm not with them.	labels:Okay. That's the second time you've used that word 'guilty'.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah? So, it sounds like it's a really-- something's really important to you about that.
text:Yeah. Like, just going out with them or spending some times with them-- time with them, but, like, I really wanna spend time with Donna too-	labels:Mm.
text:-so, it'd be cool if we could spend time together, like, with Donna and my mates.	labels:Okay. So, it's almost as if you feel a bit torn because you wanna be with Donna, but you also wanna be with your-
text:Yeah.	labels:-with your mates?
text:Yeah, like-- Well, I know I get into trouble with them, but they're still my mates, and I-	labels:Mm.
text:-feel--	labels:Yeah, so they're still important to you?
text:Yeah.	labels:Hmm. I also am hearing that you don't wanna get into trouble anymore.
text:No.	labels:Mm. Yeah.	episode:True
text:No problem.	labels:I saw that your doctor made the referral and, um, and I really appreciate you taking the time to come and make that appointment.
text:Yeah, it's-it's a bit of an inconvenience I'd say, but I'm here though.	labels:So you made it in here-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:- and do you have a sense of-of what some of the doctor's concerns were that led her to refer you?
text:I don't know, something about changing my life even more. You know, the smoking's been changed, and now it's, you know, cut down the drinking, get rid of those extra smokes, get rid of my dog. I don't know what else have to do.	labels:So your asthma has been acting up and there's a lot of stuff, not just the asthma going on?
text:Yeah, there's a lot of stress too. My wife's still on maternity leave, she's not getting paid, she's with the baby right now. And I'm the only person that's working right now, and plus I got to change all these things that are going on in my life.	labels:Mm-hmm. Almost—
text:Yeah, it's a lot.	labels:Almost overwhelming it sounds like.
text:Yeah, yeah, it is overwhelming. It is.	labels:Well, we have about, I guess, 15 or 20 minutes together and I wonder, would it be okay, if we took a couple of minutes and just kind of looked at all of the different things that are going on for you and maybe you can let me know, what would be the most helpful to spend-spend some time on?
text:Yeah, it just feels like everything's all over the place but I guess we got to start somewhere.	labels:Okay. Well, one of the things that-that we use are these-- it's kind of like a worksheet and it's an agenda-setting worksheet basically.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:So if you were to-to list all of the different things that people around you are saying that you need to work on or you need to change, what would some of those things be? And, Sal, just because we write them down here, it doesn't mean that you have to change them.
text:Okay.	labels:It really-- You're in the driver's seat, so it's just to kind of put all the cards on the table, so to speak.
text:Okay. Um, okay, that sounds good. As long as I'm not changing anything and we're just kind of putting, um, I guess, pen to paper or something.	labels:Yep.
text:Um, okay, so my asthma.	labels:Okay, so asthma is one.
text:Yeah.	labels:What else?
text:Um, the fact that they want me to get rid of Oscar, that's-that's my dog.	labels:So your dog, and-and the doctor's saying the dog's—
text:Well, he's-- Yeah, he's saying it's a main-- It's a main contributor to my asthma problems.	labels:Okay.
text:Which I don't- I don't- I don't- I don't buy it and I can't just get rid of him like that, but it's something that's there.	labels:That's pretty shocking to be told that you have to get rid of your dog.
text:Yeah. The dog has been there before my wife. I know I've had him longer.	labels:Hmm. So that's a huge stress right now?
text:Yeah. Yeah, it's- it's a big stress, it's like my best friend, so that's one of the important things. Also, I guess, cutting down these last cigarettes I've been working on.	labels:Okay, so smoking and-and I'm working towards quitting completely sounds like that's a goal for you?
text:Um, finances is a problem right now too.	labels:Okay, so money.
text:Time, I got to come to all these appointments and I'm taking time off work, which obviously is the money factor, right?	labels:Right. Right, right. So the appointments and time.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Um, and some of these things are kind of related to each other I think we're already seeing.
text:Yeah, yeah. Yeah, there's something going on. And, um, also my drinking, I got to cut down my drinking too.	labels:Okay, wow. So there's a lot happening right now, Sal. Anything else that that's concerning you?
text:No. It's just overwhelming when you see them everything they're, you know?	labels:Right. Well, so where would you-- I mean, if you-you had to pick somewhere, one or two kind of high priorities or-or things to talk about in our time this morning, where would you wanna start?
text:I think- I think the thoughts about the dog has been definitely bothering me, that's been one.	labels:Okay.
text:And, um, my-my asthma is out of control too. So maybe those two.	labels:Okay, and those are ones that are pretty related to each other-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:- sounds like. Okay.	episode:True
text:Um, it's really stupid. Uh, I was at a pub crawl last night and you know how pub crawls are. You have a few drinks and then I thought it was a really good idea to catch up with my friends who are, yeah, they're in front of me. So I just like jumped off the stairs of the bus and I was wearing these like stilettos 'cause it was a 90s-themed pub crawl. Anyway, and then I just like fell on my ankle. It was really embarrassing.	labels:Sounds like a wild night.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:It was a lot of fun but I didn't do any dancing after that.	labels:No, I guess that that would be the end of your, uh, shaking and moving. I know-- I wonder if you'd be open to exploring your alcohol use and what that looks like during the week.
text:Uh, sure, uh, as long as we don't talk too much about like vodka 'cause I'm still, ugh, a little—	labels:You're still feeling the effects of-
text:Yeah.	labels:-last night, are you?
text:A little bit.	labels:Oh wow, it was-
text:Yeah.	labels:-really a rough night.
text:Well, it's normal.	labels:So what is a typical week for you as far as your alcohol use?
text:Um, well, me and my friends kinda, uh, we party on the weekend and, you know, we're all university students and so it's just normal, um, to have a few drinks.	labels:So a few drinks is nothing new to you?
text:No.	labels:And what does a few drinks look like? Is that per night? Is it two drinks?
text:Um, per night, uh, like if we go out oh, it's a lot. It's like I can drink probably like seven or eight drinks like if I'm going hard. Um, and then, you know, like maybe when I get home from school, a long day at the library, have a beer or two, so.	labels:All right. Do you have any concerns at all about your alcohol use?
text:No. I-I don't know. It's normal for university students I feel.	labels:Okay, so at this point, you're not too concerned and you think that, you know, this is what the other students are doing?
text:Yeah.	labels:Would you be open to kind of looking at the low-risk drinking alcohol guidelines?
text:Yeah, sure.	labels:I don't know how you're feeling right now but I'm just wondering if we can take a-just a quick glance at this-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and what the safe limits are for women is 10 drinks for women a week with about two drinks, uh, per day.
text:Oh really?	labels:Yeah.
text:Wow.	labels:Where do you- where do you feel you fall into that?
text:Uh, uh I would say a little over that.	labels:Okay, okay.
text:Especially with midterms coming up.	labels:Okay, so it's kind of a way to cope through stress?
text:Yeah.	labels:Right, and is that something that has been, you know, a way of coping for a while?
text:Yeah. Yeah, I guess.	labels:Okay. Does that concern you at all?
text:Um, I mean, the 10 drinks seems like not a lot, uh, for like-for me and like my tolerance.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I guess I've kind of built it up over the years.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, so that's a little- a little bit, uh, concerning I guess to me.	labels:Do you feel like you have any reasons to kind of bring your alcohol use down within the limits?
text:Uh, any reason to? Uh, I guess health-health reasons.	labels:Tell me more about that.
text:Um, well, I mean, clearly I don't feel good right now. Um, and it's-- I definitely feel more productive when I don't have a hangover. Uh, so I see a benefit.	labels:So you can see some advantages to reducing the amount of drinking-
text:Yeah.	labels:-um, that you consume during the week?
text:Yeah	labels:Is this something you would be willing to explore with me a little further at another time maybe when you're feeling a little bit better? Is this something you'd be willing to come back and talk to me about?
text:Yeah, yeah, I think when I'm feeling a little- a little better. Maybe when I haven't gone all out the-the night before and sprained my ankle.	labels:I'd love to, uh, set up an appointment for you if you can come in later this week or early next week to-
text:Okay, okay.	labels:-kind of explore this a little bit further and maybe some of those advantages of reducing to the safe limits. Is that something that we could do?
text:Sure. Yeah, just not on a Saturday morning. [chuckles]	labels:That's okay with me.
text:Okay.	labels:Thank you.
text:Yeah. Yeah, well, the only reason I'm here is 'cause my wife thinks I've got a problem with smoking. I've been smoking all my life and, uh, six months ago, uh, she thought, she got into this health kick, right? And now everyone who smokes is evil. And, uh, so that's why I'm here just to please her, get her off my back and—	labels:So, you're not too happy to be here. This is the last thing that you want to be doing this afternoon.
text:Yeah. That's an understatement. I mean, I'm supposed to be at work right now, too, right? So-	labels:You've taken time off you, it's costing you time and money being here.
text:Yeah, yeah. I'm only here because my wife forced me to come, you know. Like this has come to a head six months of just nagging me, relentless every day, because she was able to quit smoking and now I have to quit.	labels:So, let me ask you this, Bob, what are some of your wife's concerns about your smoking?
text:Well, she's concerned about my health and she cuts out all these articles from the paper about second-hand smoke and—	labels:Wow, that she's been showing you and making you read.
text:Yeah, I've got to read this. That's my reading assignment for breakfast and I want to go out and have-- We used to go out and have a cigarette together at the table. Now I have to go outside in this weather, you know, what's that about? And she used to smoke more than me and now she's like holier than now?	labels:So, you're pretty angry about it. It's pretty outraging that you're forced to change your whole life because of a decision she made six months ago.
text:And she's got my kids on this against me, you know, my son and my daughter, they're, it's like, they're ganging up on me, you know what I mean?	labels:So, from your perspective, do you see any consequences to your smoking?
text:Well, the big one of course is how it's affecting my wife and the family. Like my dad's 85, he still smokes. I mean, yeah, you know, sometimes I thought of quitting, but I mean, I don't know. I don't know if I can-- I don't know if I can quit.	labels:So, let me make sure I understand kind of the whole scenario 'cause there's a lot of pieces to it. Your wife is on your case and your kids are ganging up too. So, you're sort of isolated, you're put in a corner and you're being told this is something you have to do, you have no choice in the matter.
text:Yeah.	labels:You have a few concerns about your health, but that's not really the driving force. It sounds like it's most of all that it would be nice if things just went back to the way they were before she quit smoking and that all of this stuff wasn't something that you had to deal with anymore. Does that pretty much sum up--?
text:Yeah. Yeah. I-I'm just, I don't want to lose her or my family over smoking.	labels:I get the feeling that your relationship is really important to you. That you would do anything.
text:Well, yeah, I mean, we've been married over 25 years, and uh, we've never had any major problems. Like this is-- this is the first problem. I don't even really see it as a problem cause we used to both smoke and I was trying to accommodate them by smoking outside, but it's feeling like we're going like this and I'm just concerned, like if this keeps going, like.	labels:So, it strikes me that the way that we're talking about it, it's like it's all or nothing. Either you keep smoking the way you are, things continue to go downhill and get worse, your wife gets more and more on your case, or you put your cigarettes down starting the moment you walk in the door tonight and never pick them up again. It's almost like one or the other. It strikes me that as well there might be some middle ground here that it took you a long time to learn how to be a smoker and maybe it's going to take some time to learn how to stop smoking.
text:So, I can actually do it that way like gradual taber?	labels:There are some medications and some different approaches that we can use that aren't so abrupt. Recognizing that it-it's going to take some time and practice to get to where you might want to be.
text:I wish my wife could have come today cause she's feels after like, just stop like right away. So do you think she could come with me at a future appointment or something and she could hear that message?	labels:If you wanted to bring your wife along, I'd be more than happy to talk with both of you.
text:Okay. I'll have to talk to her as well because their schedule changes from week to week, she works shifts, so I'll call you back tomorrow and we'll set something up.	labels:Okay. That sounds good.
text:All right.	labels:Thanks for coming in.
text:Sure.	labels:-the rise in your blood pressure is concerning to me, so I'd like to gather a bit more information about your lifestyle.
text:Okay.	labels:Okay. Have you had any major stressful events recently or any change in your work situation?
text:Not really, I haven't been stressed. Uh, I've been working steady, you know, these days, I'm glad to have a job, I really am happy that I'm working, so.	labels:Yeah, that's certainly true. I'd also like to ask about some health habits that can contribute to high blood pressure.
text:Okay.	labels:Okay, do you smoke at all?
text:I don't smoke. I smoked, you know, as a young adult, quit 20 years ago. I went cold turkey. I was proud of that, haven't even thought about smoking.	labels:Okay, great. Um, do you drink alcohol, including beer or wine?
text:Uh, I do drink beer, I drink, you know, two to three pints on weekdays, sometimes on weekends, maybe four or five.	labels:Okay. Well, I'm concerned about the amount that you're drinking currently. It sounds like you're having about 15 to 20 drinks per week, and that's definitely more than what we would recommend and could certainly be contributing to your high blood pressure.
text:Well, I-- you know, my pressure has been high for years and, um, you know.	labels:Well, according to your chart, your blood pressure has gone up since July, and you said that you've been drinking more recently, so do you see the connection there?
text:Maybe a little bit.	labels:Alcohol can have some dangerous effects on your body. So along with contributing to high blood pressure, it can have a big impact on your liver, which you need to keep in mind. So your liver has several different roles in your body. First, it helps process excess fatty acids before they get distributed to the rest of your body. It also helps process alcohol and other drugs. So when you have an excess of alcohol, your liver can't work as efficiently and the fatty acids build up, and over time, your liver won't be able to work as well.
text:Okay.	labels:Okay. And how about the use of other drugs like cocaine, heroin, marijuana?
text:I don't use heroin or cocaine. I've never even thought about using the hard drugs. Back in school, 20 years or so ago, I smoked reefer, you know. Once I got out of school, I haven't used that at all.	labels:Okay. Have you ever used any prescription medications that weren't prescribed for you or in a way that wasn't prescribed?
text:No, I don't- I don't, uh, really like the idea of taking pills. Uh, as a matter of fact, a couple of years ago, I had this jaw surgery. They gave me a prescription for Percocet. I took one, maybe feel weird. I think they're still sitting in the medicine cabinet.	labels:Okay, excellent. Well, it sounds to me like the increase in your drinking could certainly be contributing to your high blood pressure. I think decreasing the number of drinks that you have when you go out and maybe decreasing the number of times that you go to the bar each week could be the best thing that you can do for your health.
text:Well, I guess I'll try.	labels:Okay. And then we'll set up an appointment for about a month from now. We'll recheck your blood pressure and see how you're doing with all this, sound okay?
text:Okay.	labels:Okay.	episode:True
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. Um, what brings you in?
text:Well, I'm supposed to come to learn about my-- how to manage my diabetes. Just got diagnosed.	labels:Mm-hmm. I see- I see that your A1C or your blood glucose is very high.
text:Yeah, that's what doctor said. She-she really laid into me about that. Said it was-- I guess, this is really serious stuff. She was talking about losing eyesight, mm, my feet, mm, problems with a lot of other stuff, and it really scared me. Uh, so, [sighs] you know, how-how-how to manage all this, I guess, is what I gotta learn, but it just sounds massive.	labels:Mm-hmm. Well, you do need to take your medicine. We, uh, will need to start dieting, uh, you know, lose some weight, change-change your eating habits, exercise, uh, to get your diabetes under control, because your doctor is right, it is very serious.
text:That's, uh, that's a huge amount of stuff to do and, I'm not- I'm not certain I can do all that, and on top of it, it's-it's-- if I don't get it all done, all this stuff happens to me?	labels:So, it sure can.
text:[sighs]	labels:So, uh, you know, we-we need to start looking at doing all those different things to get your diabetes under control 'cause your-your number is very high.
text:They found a little bag of weed.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:It's not a lot though.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:It's not like I was gonna sell it or anything. It's like—	labels:Just enough for your own use?
text:Yeah, whatever, you know. It's California, no one cares.	labels:Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
text:How long is this gonna take?	labels:Yeah, we-- You know, we have about 15 to 20 minutes to talk today, total. Um-um, which certainly it's just the first of-of some sessions that we'll have together over the next six months. It'd be a natural question you'd wanna know how much time this will take, of course. Um, what else would you like me to know about you and your perspective that you think will help me work with you over this time?
text:I just wanna get whatever I need to get done, done.	labels:Okay. You're more focused on what you need to do to get this behind you?
text:Yeah	labels:.Okay, mm-hmm. Well, I'm wondering then if it's okay with you and-and I have a form that we can use if you'd like, um, just to put out some different ideas on an agenda that we could share as we're working together so that I-I can support you to be successful in getting this behind you. Would-would this feel like a natural time to-to move towards figuring out where we might go together?	episode:True
text:Yeah, I guess.	labels:Okay. So about how much are you smoking over the course of a day? You had said it had increased over once or twice a day.
text:Yeah, um, normally, I'm smoking, you know, like once in the morning, uh, once during my lunch break and then in the evening maybe like five or six.	labels:Okay. So about eight cigarettes. So over the course of a day, just under half a pack?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. And that's changed over what period of time?
text:Um, honestly, it's probably been over the past year or so that I- I've been smoking a little bit more.	labels:Okay. So over the past year, the smoking has increased. And that's been mainly in the evening?
text:Yeah. Um, I have a two-year-old son as I mentioned, so I try to never smoke around him. So I'm normally kinda waiting until he gets to bed.	labels:Mm-hmm. Well, that's the time when you can relax and unwind.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:So are there other things you do in the evening to relax?
text:Um, I mean, maybe I'll have like a drink or two.	labels:Okay. A drink or two. So about how many drinks would you say you have over the course of a day?
text:Um, maybe like two max.	labels:Two max. How many drinks would you say you'd have over the course of a week?
text:I don't know. I mean, I don't really get why you're asking me that. I mean, I just came here, you know, for a regular visit. I-I am not here to talk about my drinking.	labels:No, I understand- I understand. And I'm certainly not here to tell you what to-to do, Sarah. I'm interested in hearing your thoughts and sharing some information with you, and what you do with that information is totally up to you. You've got a lot going on. You're a mother, you're working, you're going to school, and our healthcare team wants to make sure that you have all the resources available to you to meet your goals, including good health. And my job as your healthcare provider is to listen to you and to share information with you, including healthcare concerns associated with smoking and alcohol. Would that be okay with you?
text:Yeah, I guess.	labels:Okay. Well, we do know that an increase in smoking and alcohol is associated with certain kinds of cancer; colon cancer, cervical cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, and, um, also pancreatic cancer. It's also associated with liver and lung disease as well as heart disease, diabetes, and hypertension. So that's a lot of information, but I'm-
text:Yeah.	labels:-interested in what your thoughts are, Sarah.
text:Well, I-I'm just kinda surprised because, I mean, I don't smoke or drink that much. And I mean, compared to people I work with, you know, I-I smoke a lot less, and I feel like I've actually been trying to keep it pretty low.	labels:So you're consciously trying to cut back.
text:Yeah.	labels:I have a readiness ruler in my pocket here, 0 means not ready to stop smoking at all and 10 means absolutely ready to stop smoking. Where do you see yourself on that scale?
text:Um, maybe like a five.	labels:About a five. So you're halfway there. So why did you choose a five rather than a four?
text:Well, I mean, you brought up some kinda scary stuff like, you know, cancer risk or other things like that. And you know, being a mother, I-I don't want something to happen to me obviously.	labels:Right. Well, that's a lot of information to think about. So given, the fact that these healthcare concerns are a possibility, and that you're worried about your family and you certainly have goals you want to succeed at, where are you in your consideration to making a change? In other words, what steps would you consider taking for this number to move closer to a 10?
text:Well, I mean, I could maybe try to cut back in the evenings a little bit.	labels:Okay, great. Let's quantify that a little bit. So how many cigarettes would that be?
text:Well, right now, if I'm having like five or six, I could try to smoke three in the evening plus, you know, still the couple during the day.	labels:Okay. So you-- that's cutting back quite a bit. That's a big step. So since we're kind of running out of time here today, I'm wondering if we could-- would be willing to come back in about four weeks to review this plan?
text:Yeah. Sure.	labels:Okay, good. So we can go over your laboratory results at that time, as well as review your plan. Now, would you like some information on smoking cessation?
text:Yeah, I-I think that would be very helpful.	labels:Okay. Well, I've got a brochure here and this has-- it's a really good brochure. It has some distraction techniques in it in case you get those nicotine cravings. So it's-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-been helpful, um, in-- with patients before. I'd also like to ask you, would you be willing to see one of our counselors?
text:Well, what-what for exactly?	labels:Well, Dr. Kirtley is one of our counselors and he is an expert in-- at discussing the association between alcohol and stress. I want to share something with you. The National Guidelines recommend that women have no more than seven drinks of alcohol per week to-to stay at that low risk level, to avoid the healthcare concerns that we spoke of earlier.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:You've indicated that your alcohol consumption is a bit higher than that, putting you at risk. So that's why I asked if you'd be willing to talk to Dr. Kirtley.
text:I mean, I would like to talk about, you know, my stress, but I'm still not sure with the whole drinking thing.	labels:Certainly, certainly. I'm glad you're willing to talk to him. So before you leave here today, we'll, uh, stop by the scheduler's desk and make an appointment for you to see me back in four weeks, as well as the appointment with Dr. Kirtley. And that way, before you leave, you're all set. So do you have any other questions for me, Sarah?
text:I don't think so.	labels:Okay. Well, it's very nice to meet you. I'll see you in a month.
text:Oh, I-I don't know if I'm comfortable with that. I've been reading a bunch of stuff lately about them.	labels:Hmm. Can you tell me more about your concerns about vaccines?
text:Uh, yeah, well, I was just- I was reading that it's better to let them build up their immunity, like, naturally and stuff in their immune systems.	labels:Okay, so you were thinking that maybe exposing Lily naturally to these diseases would be a better choice than using vaccines to help her get stronger?
text:Well, yeah. I mean, I had chickenpox as a kid, and now I'm immune. Right? So.	labels:That's right. Having chickenpox as a child means that you are less likely to have chickenpox as an adult because you've developed a-a natural immunity. Uh, but is it okay if I offer you a little bit more information about the other vaccines that we're- we were going to give her Lily today?
text:Uh, okay.	labels:Okay. So, uh, before vaccines were developed, often when children had a natural exposure to some of these diseases, they ended up with, uh, sometimes death, disability, measles caused brain damage and, uh, deafness and blindness. Polio caused, uh, paralysis in children. And so, allowing children to have natural exposure to these diseases, sometimes was a little bit of a gamble, it could be dangerous.
text:Wow, I didn't realize it was so dangerous. I've never heard of polio.	labels:Hmm. Some of these things I've mentioned to you, you're-you're not familiar with. Uh, and I think that's because we've done such a good job of eliminating some of these diseases that a lot of people your age, and even my age, are unfamiliar with those things.  Um, so having shared this information with you, what do you think about the idea of vaccines for-for Lilly?
text:Uh, I guess it's okay. I mean, I just I want her to be healthy and safe.	labels:It's really important for you to make sure that she's protected and that you make good decisions and do your research before you make any medical decisions for her.
text:Yeah, I guess so.	labels:-on that. All right. So, I'd like to ask you, uh, kind of a scaling question about this 'cause I'm hearing that this feels really important to you that you'd be way up there on the high- on the high end of importance.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, I'm gonna ask the question this way, on a scale of 0 to 10, where 0 is not at all confident, and 10 is like, "I'm very, very confident," where would you put yourself on a scale right now of confidence in starting this new plan?
text:Right now, I'm probably-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-gonna say a six.	labels:A six.
text:But I know when I go home and I see the food, it's probably gonna drop back down to a four.	labels:Okay. All right. So, let's talk about that, um, so we should just assume we're gonna be at a four.
text:Right?	labels:Okay?
text:I guess.	labels:So, why are you at a four and not even a lower number? Why are you not like a zero or a one?
text:Because I've been wanting to do this for-for years, like-	labels:Okay.
text:-ever since I started becoming conscious of my body.	labels:Okay.
text:Like ever since I started being a teen, like this has always been a goal of mine, like, especially 'cause all my friends play soccer, and like-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:-hike, and are like super stick-thin but really healthy and active.	labels:Okay.
text:And so I'm just sort of like, well, I'm not.	labels:Okay.
text:But I want to be like-- I don't want to be like stick-thin, but I really want to be like really healthy and really active.	labels:Okay.
text:And like be able to look nice, you know.	labels:Okay, all right.
text:I wanna be able to look nice.	labels:Okay. So, what would help increase that confidence? What-- Because that sounds like where we really need to focus on. What's gonna help you feel more confident about this?
text:I don't even really know-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-honestly. Like, I mean, I know I'm gonna have to keep like telling myself like-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-like this is something that you want- that you've wanted-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:-for years.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:Like, you can do it. Because like-	labels:Okay.
text:I know I can do it. Like I can do anything.	labels:All right.
text:I can do anything-	labels:All right.
text:-I know that. But it's hard getting to the point where I-	labels:Okay.
text:-do something.	labels:All right. Well, if it's okay, just for a moment, let's put the- let's put the changing the eating pattern off to the side, and let's take a look at some other time in your life that there was something you really wanted to accomplish and you did. And what is it about you- what was it about you? What kind of strengths did you bring to the table that allowed you to tackle something that felt like a challenge and-and allowed you to be successful?	episode:True
text:Uh, yeah. I just got off work, and apparently, they're going smoke-free, so I'm-- I-I thought I'd stop by the pharmacy here and see what my options are. Some of my friends have tried nicotine patches and the-- they say they don't work really well. I don't really wanna quit smoking, I just need something to get me through the day.	labels:So you want nicotine replacement, but you don't wanna quit smoking?
text:Maybe like da-- during the day nicotine replacement. Is that-- I mean, do you have anything like that?	labels:We don't really recommend that. The idea is you would use the nicotine replacement to actually quit, so then you wouldn't be smoking at work, but you also wouldn't be smoking the rest of the time either.
text:Well, I don't really wanna quit. I mean, I like smoking. I like go-- after work, I have a beer with my friends, and I'll smoke cigarettes. I mean, it's not really a big deal. Cigarettes aren't that bad. I mean, I know that the-- it's popular to say that smoking is bad for you but, you know, I like it, so I'm gonna be doing it.	labels:Okay. Well, smoking really is really bad for you, you know. It causes things like lung cancer, emphysema, heart disease-
text:Yeah, yeah. Okay.	labels:-oral diseases.
text:Okay. Well, what are my options? You know, assuming that I'm right, what are my options?	labels:Well, to be honest with you, you mentioned the patch. I can't recommend a patch to you if you're gonna continue smoking. That can actually be pretty dangerous for you. In order to advise you about this at all, I need you to tell me a little bit more about your smoking history and how much you're smoking now.
text:Well, I mean, I s-- I-I-I smoke barely a pack a day. I mean, I've probably smoked for about five or six years now. It's not really a lot of cigarettes, but it's sort of hard to get through the day at work.	labels:Okay. Well, we actually consider 20 cigarettes a day to be a significant amount, and in fact, I would then recommend to you that you would start on the highest dose of nicotine replacement.
text:Sounds good to me. The more nicotine, the better. Is it like gum or something? Could I chew it like while I'm in the office? That sounds pretty great. I mean, do you have—	labels:Well, there are some products that you could use to take away some of your cravings, and probably the gum would be the best option for you. It's not something you would continue to use continuously throughout the day, however, but gum is something you use just when you have a craving.
text:Oh. Okay. Well, where is that?	labels:Well, we have that here, but again, the-the idea would be for you to actually quit smoking.
text:Well, I-- [sighs] I'm probably not gonna buy anything today. I mean, I just came by to see what my options are. I-- if-- thanks for the input. I mean, do you have anything else, do you have any other advice for me?	labels:Well, aside from the gum, you could try the nicotine lozenge, that would be another option for you. Again, that's not something you'd wanna use continuously throughout the day. The nicotine patch is the best for continuous nicotine replacement, but again, that's not something you can use while you're continuing to smoke.
text:Oh, well. Okay. Well, thanks. I mean, I guess that helps a little bit. I'll-- maybe I'll be back later. Thanks.	labels:Okay.	episode:True
text:Oh, it's a nice place. It's close to work. It's good living with a mate.	labels:Yeah. So, in terms of being supportive and a sort of support you're gonna need to make these changes.
text:Yeah.	labels:What's your thinking around that?
text:That's the thing, isn't it? I am-- I don't know if it's the best place for me to be if I'm gonna make those changes.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And Tristan is a good flatmate.	labels:Yeah.
text:I have no-- We're going in different-different directions now. He doesn't have the same kind of responsibilities I have and stuff, and so-- And I can't expect him to change his whole life around, just because I wanna change mine.	labels:Right.
text:I just-- I don't know how keen I am to move in with my- with my aunty and uncle, though.	labels:Okay. You're good to explore, but I just want to ask you about, how much does Chris-Christian-Christian know-- Tristan know about you changing your life? What does he really know about the changes you wanna make?
text:I sit down and talk with him, asked him for, um, for support and stuff and he's fully, he says fully he'll be there for me. But, like I said, he's, um, he's in a different place in his life than I am in mine.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:He doesn't have kids.	labels:Right.
text:He doesn't-- I don't know if he can really understand what it means to me. Um, he's a good mate.	labels:Okay. What are some of the pros and cons about moving in with whāna, moving in with your auntie and uncle?
text:The food would be good. Um, I get- I get support with-- my whānau is really supportive, but I'm- I'm worried about losing- I'm worried about losing my freedom. I'm worried about, um, about them taking over, or, you know what I mean? I have a freedom where I am now, I'm in charge of myself. That would probably be really good.	labels:In terms of that freedom and in charge of yourself, and the changes that we're talking about, and building your own family, and to enable you to do that, where do some of that freedom stuff sit with re-engaging back with your whānau and your children, your partner? Is it something you're gonna wanna hang on to, or how you're going to manage that?
text:I don't wanna hang on to freedom if it this- if it means that I lose my kids. Um, I'm just, uh, I'm just worried about-- I'm worried about if I move in with family, that they, even if their intentions are good-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Okay.	labels:Do you use any tobacco products, or smoke cigarettes?
text:No, I would bum cigarettes in college, but I was never a smoker.	labels:Okay. How about in the last year?
text:No, not really anything.	labels:Okay. And how often do you have a drink containing alcohol?
text:Um, a few times a week. Uh, Wednesdays, I'll go to happy hour and have about two or three. And then, um, Thursdays, seven, um, seven or eight. Fridays, probably just a couple of glasses of wine with dinner. Um, but Saturdays are bigger night. And I would probably have a few drinks before I went to the bar. And then have four or five at when-when I was out. So—	labels:Okay. So it sounds like you're drinking about four times a week, anywhere between three and eight drinks on a given day. So, maybe around 20 drinks a week?
text:I guess, it sounds like a lot when you say [chuckles] like that. But yeah.	labels:Okay. Do you use any street drugs like any marijuana, cocaine, heroin?
text:No. I-I smoked weed in college, but just a little bit. I wasn't a regular smoker.	labels:Do you, um, do you ever use any prescription medicines that were not prescribed for you, or ever use your own prescriptions in a way on which they were not prescribed?
text:No.	labels:Okay. So, you know, as we said before, you're drinking-- it sounds like you're drinking about 20 drinks a week, over the course of a few days. And I did want to point out to you that the recommended limit for women is actually no more than seven drinks a week, and no more than three on a given day.
text:Okay.	labels:So you're doing more than that right now. And when you drink more than this amount, it puts you at risk for a number of things, okay? Things like greater risk of injury, damage to different parts of your body, um, just a bunch of different problems. And, uh-- so I'm going to recommend that you cut down- cut down that amount to the recommended limit. Again, that's no more than seven drinks a week and no more than three on a given day. Do you think you could do that? Would that be a good goal for you?
text:That's a lot to change. I don't know.	labels:Yeah, I know that making changes isn't always easy. But when you drink more than what's recommended, it creates problems. You know, you said you hurt your ankle when you came out of the bar this time.
text:I mean, the stairs were really steep. So—	labels:Yeah. Well, it's possible you strained your ankle as a result of the alcohol. You know, it can actually affect your balance and stability. So, really, you know, for where you are right now, you're drinking a good amount more than what's recommended. And, you know, I want you to be healthy. And I don't want to see you coming back in here for something else. So I'm really gonna recommend that you try to cut down to that amount. So, do you think you could do that, cut down to no more than three drinks on a given day?
text:Where are these limits from? Um, old- an older population? Because, uh, I drink just as much as my friends do. I mean, everybody drinks like I drink. I'm not even the biggest drinker in my group. So I'm pretty middle of the road.	labels:So, it sounds like, you know, the amount you drink is pretty normal-
text:Yeah.	labels:-amongst the people you typically drink with. But these limits are-- they're actually recommended for all adults. And studies have shown that when you drink more than this, it creates a bunch of problems like we talked about. So, you know, why do you think you drink the amount you drink?
text:I don't know. It's what we do. It's-- this is how we have fun, I guess. It is fun.	labels:Well, I think you can still have fun within these amounts. So that's what I'm gonna recommend. Um, I think this is a really good goal, and hopefully, we won't see any more injuries. Okay? So why don't you try that?
text:Okay.	labels:All right. Thank you so much.
text:I don't really know what issues I need to sort.	labels:Sorry?
text:I don't really know what issues I need to-	labels:All right.
text:-sort. It's just a bit of cash.	labels:Yeah.
text:So—	labels:So first, it might be trying to sort out what are the important issues to sort out.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah, that makes sense? Yeah? So how confident are you that-that, you know, you can sort out the issues related to, um, you know, uh, taking the money from your employer? And another thing, in your precinct's report, there were some issues around gambling, and some issues around alcohol use. So those seem to be important issues that are kind of getting out. So how confident are you that you can get those sorted in the nine months we've got?
text:Um, I don't think there is much to sort. I have a few drinks like everybody else my age.	labels:Yeah.
text:Pokies are at the pubs for the thrills, it's no worries.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:It's not an issue.	labels:Yeah. See one of the things I'll be really interested in-in talking with you about is, um, yeah, what's-what's the, um, what's the worst thing that has happened in terms of pokies, in terms of you know behavior around the pokies, what's the worst thing that's happened?
text:Uh, I suppose when you've got no money in the pocket at the end of the night.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:And some nights you do, so.	labels:Yeah. So how often do you end up with no money in your pocket? Can be the times when you end up with money in your pocket
text:Well, I don't really keep track.	labels:Yeah, yeah. So if we were to think back, say the last month, the last four weeks, how many times would you have gone down to the- to the pokies, the pub?
text:I don't know. A few times a week.	labels:Yeah. Yeah.
text:I don't know. It's if you're at the pub, you're, you know, that-that you're out there.	labels:That-that you're up for the money and-and then-then they slot you.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Okay. So-so thinking about this, say a couple times a week, you know, two or three?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah, yeah, yeah? So that's 12 times. So how many times would you have walked away with money in your pocket after, any out of the 12, what's your- what's your sense?
text:I don't know. A few times, probably when I have it, I might drink a drink.	labels:Okay. Okay. So you're saying about 50-50?
text:Yeah.	labels:'Cause you have to understand the odds are about-- sort of-of tend to be about 25% on the 100, that-that's [crosstalk]
text:It's the unlucky ones.	labels:Yeah, you might be lucky then. So-so what do you reckon like in terms of like you're saying you're not sort of sure if that's an issue, and that's probably something that we can be working with, uh, figure it is an issue.
text:Mm.	labels:And, yeah, it might be an issue, I don't know if it's an issue at this point. It'll be interesting to sort of talk about that. But I'm wondering what happens, yeah, when-when you get on the pokies out there, they're certainly at the pub, pokies around? So what happens in your body when, um—
text:A bit of a rush, I suppose.	labels:A bit of a rush. Yeah. 'Cause other people I have worked with say that, yeah, sometimes they get a bit of a rush, that somehow the rush takes over and they don't know when to stop. Not sure if that's what- if that's what it's like for you, but other people have told me that, so.
text:Yeah, I suppose.	labels:Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. So that could be an issue we could spend some time talking about here, 'cause obviously you know, you don't- you don't - you don't wanna be here, and then my interest now is just getting you o-out of the system, not getting you into the systems. So-so here, um-- how-how much do you think this is an issue for you, you reckon? The pokies and the gambling.
text:I don't know, I suppose it's lead me to be here, maybe. I don't know.	labels:Yeah, yeah. Thinking about your friends, you know, how would you soft of think about your friends 'cause, you know, I guess you go out with your girlfriends and stuff.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah, yeah. So, in terms of their behavior, like how did your behavior sort of match with their behavior? Are they much the same as you, are they different than you?
text:Much the same, bunch of party girls.	labels:Yeah, yeah, yeah. Then, in terms of the pokies and stuff they much as they like doing the pokies so much as your doing the-- You know, compared to you doing the pokies?
text:Um, I don't know. I suppose they walk away a bit quicker than me.	labels:Oh, okay, okay. Who's-who's-- What's your girlfriend's name, your best- your best friend, best girl friend?
text:Sarah.	labels:Sarah, So what do you think Sarah would say?
text:I don't know.	labels:What would she say about—
text:We'd just have a laugh.	labels:Yeah, what would she say about-- 'cause she knows you pretty well. She'll-she'll-- she goes to the pubs with you probably and see you putting the money on pokies, what would she reckon?
text:Uh, no friends or friends should-- She accepts me for who I am.	labels:Absolutely, and that's what you want from friends, isn't it?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:You want that acceptance, absolutely, yeah, yeah. But won't you say, you know, friends also-- good friends also can, you know, call you on stuff too, can't they? Yeah?
text:At times.	labels:At times. Yeah, so-so what you-- wha-what she might say to us about about- a-a-about your gambling?
text:I don't know. You don't have any money, so-- And that she-she'll probably be quite happy if I stopped.	labels:Okay.
text:But, um, I don't know. She-she doesn't really discuss it with me.	labels:Okay. But you owe her some money and you get the sense that-- Or I'm picking up, you get a sense that she's not terribly happy.
text:Mm.	labels:Yeah, yeah, okay, okay. So Sarah might see it as an issue. And-and I guess there's a part of you also sees it as an issue, part of you, you know. Part of you may not, but a part of you does.
text:Mm.	labels:So the part of you that does see this is-- as an issue, yeah, that the gambling sometimes can be out of control, you know, tell me that part of you that-that maybe knows that, uh, it's getting you into trouble and it's gone way-- just moved you off from that point, there have been some—
text:Um, I don't know if pfft-- maybe I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for gambling 'cause-	labels:Yeah.
text:-you know, suppose in some way, I took the money for-for that but I don't know, you know? It's just a few dollars here and there and I didn't really think about it at the time, so-	labels:Mm.
text:-I don't know.	labels:Yeah, and-and in some ways getting caught might be a good thing. I know it might sound a re-really sort of strange thing to say, but I wonder if like getting caught might have been a good thing. Because you would have read the papers about other people's of-- you know. They're the hands that would turn on stuff and end up with gambling problems and big money. So I want- I want to hear much that it might have been a good thing that you got caught at this stage, and you got a chance to do some talking about it and working around some strategies to get it under control so it doesn't control you. What's your hunch about that?
text:I don't know. I-I don't think it would have been too much of a problem. I mean I'm not a bad person, I wouldn't have, you know, wouldn't have continued to steal. It was just at the time that I was going through a rough patch. I wasn't intending to make it a long-term thing.	labels:Yeah. Yeah, so you're not a bad person. Certainly, I don't make judgments about people being bad people. So that seems sort of actually thinking about this, you sensed that you could've stopped.
text:Yeah.	labels:Have you put on a kind of real hat, you know, you get a real hat here, you know? What-what's your hunch about that? Is it a kind of-- that kind of realization it's a bit of a smoke screen, what's your hunch?
text:I don't know, you tell me.	labels:How about then your-your kind of hunch about that?
text:Uh, I suppose I didn't expect the-the money would've added up to what it did, so I guess, at the time, I- [sighs] I wasn't thinking of the reality of it, you know, building up, so-	labels:Mm.
text:-you know, it did, so I'm here-	labels:Yeah-
text:-so, I suppose—	labels:-so, what did it add up to, at the end of the day? What are we talking here?
text:It's a couple of grand or something.	labels:Yeah, yeah. It's a little bit here, a little bit there, so it then adds up, yeah? Yeah.
text:Well, that a little bit here, a little bit there is nothing I didn't work for. [chuckles] I worked [unintelligible 00:10:35] and I was getting paid $18 an hour-	labels:Mm.
text:-$25, you do the math. [chuckles] And that's gonna support me?	labels:Yeah. Okay. So-so, there's some-some questions you've got around some-some ways you, kind of, explained them. And then, as we work together, you know, we-- there might be some other ways we look at it and see it too, you know, that-that's part of working together. So, I'm wondering, how open are you to, you know, seeing this situation from lots of different angles?
text:I don't know. I'm usually an open person. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah? Yeah.
text:Just provided it will help me deal with it.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So, what other things have you've been open to at other times in your life when you've been open to-to new ideas and being able to talk about stuff, that may be tough to talk about?
text:I don't know. I am just usually pretty open with people. It's a bit different here tonight and-	labels:Yeah.
text:-just not knowing what to expect then—	labels:Yeah, and-and, coming in, talking to a stranger, you know, and someone who can be honest to what you did, talking to a stranger, coming in this time, what do you sense about how you're doing so far?
text:I don't know. I suppose I'm saying that the money did add up, and that was enough for me to end up here, so-	labels:Mm.
text:-I suppose I'm here for a reason. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah. You know, like-- I-- And, some people wouldn't even, sort of, get in the door or wouldn't be as open as you've been today, okay, to an extent, so, you know, like I said, good on you, yeah. You know, being able to-- It's hard to come to a place like this and start to really open up, so, you know, you've just shown that you can do that. Yeah.
text:I didn't have a choice. [chuckles]	labels:Well, you have a choice about what you open up to me about. Absolutely, you have a choice about that, yeah. That coming, being on sentence, no, you don't have a choice about that, um, well, you have a choice, 'cause, I mean, you can choose not to come, and you'll be breached and get to head back to court.
text:Mm.	labels:Um, but you do have a choice about how you are here when we meet, and what-what we talk about here. So, um, you know, so you do have lots of choices within that. And, my sense is you're, sort of, you know, a young woman who will make some good choices about that 'cause you're not a bad person, and you know that.
text:Mm.	labels:Yeah.	episode:True
text:Yeah. I-I just-- I can't shoplift anymore. You know, I got- I got caught again. And uh, you know, I-I got suspended, I got back to school, so I'm-I'm uh-- I'm gonna mess up my whole life here, unless I can stop this.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah, it's bad. My friends and I, we just-- I mean, it's fun and uh-- so I don't know what to do, but I- but I gotta change.	labels:Okay.
text:I want it.	labels:So, it sounds like you're ready. You're ready to give this up.
text:Yeah.	labels:But, maybe the path to doing that isn't so clear.
text:Right. I don't know what I'm gonna do, I got some friends. These guys are-- they're bad news, but they're my friends.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And, uh, and it's fun.	labels:And it's fun.
text:You know?	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Nothing-nothing much else going on that's as fun as this. We go in, we steal these CDs. It was working out fine, but—	labels:Uh-huh.	episode:True
text:Okay.	labels:Um, I did wanna talk to you though. I'm a little bit concerned looking through his chart of how many ear infections he's had recently. And I-I noticed that you had checked the box that someone's smoking in the home. So I was wondering if you can tell me a little more about that.
text:Well, um, It's just me and him and I do smoke. Um, I try really hard not to smoke around him, but I-I've been smoking for 10 years except when I was pregnant with him. But it-- everything is so stressful being a single mom and-and my having a full-time job. And so it's just-- that's why I started smoking again.	labels:You have a lot of things going on and smoking's kind of a way to relax and destress.
text:Yeah. Some people have a glass of wine. I have a cigarette.	labels:Sure. And it sounds like you're trying not to smoke around him. Why did you make that decision?
text:I know it's not good for him. I mean, I've read those things about ear infections and asthma and stuff and-and, uh, but other kids have ear infections and their parents don't smoke.	labels:So on the one hand, you're worried about how your smoking might be affecting him and on the other hand, you're not so sure if it's really the smoking that's causing these problems?
text:Right. Yeah. I mean, he doesn't have asthma. Yeah. He-- I don't-- he hasn't had a lot of other problems that his other friends have, so. And I've thought about quitting before in the past, but I just don't- I just don't see how it's possible right now.	labels:What made you decide to quit smoking when you were pregnant?
text:Well, he was inside me and we were sharing everything and I knew that he would get some of that. And I didn't-- I just didn't-didn't think I could live with myself if something happened to him.	labels:Right now, though, it feels almost too difficult to even manage or even to try?
text:Yeah, exactly.	labels:How were you successful when you quit before?
text:I don't know. I-I think about it now, I don't even know how I did it. I just- I just did it. You know, I just- I just couldn't imagine like him not being born or going into labor early-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and-and him having problems and stuff like that, all the stuff that they talk about with women who smoke. So I-- that was just enough to-to say, "Okay, you know what, I'm-I'm not going to risk that." so.	labels:Mm-hmm. The risks were so scary then that you were able to stop?
text:Yeah.	labels:But they don't feel as scary to you now?
text:No, I mean, we're two separate people. And like I said, I don't, I try really hard not to smoke around him. I'm pretty good about that. I-I don't let other people smoke around him. Um, so I, you know.	labels:You're doing the best you can do.
text:Yes.	labels:Okay. But it sounds to me too like part of you really does want to quit?
text:Yeah. I-I know that I need to, and I, you know, keep every new year I say, "Okay, this year I'm gonna quit smoking" but then something happens and it-it just doesn't. And quitting doesn't happen.	labels:It's on your to-do list. It's just not making it to the top?
text:Yeah.	labels:If you did decide to quit on a scale of 1 to 10, where 1 is not at all confident, and you don't think you could do it and 10 is you feel pretty certain that you could, where do you think you fall right now?
text:Probably like a 5 . Kind of in the unsure area. Like I know I've done it before, so I know I can do it, but at the same time, it just seems really hard. And it's not the same situation.	labels:Well, what made you say five rather than two or three?
text:I know- I know all the ways it's bad for me. And I don't want him to grow up thinking that it's okay to smoke. I don't want him to-to use any kind of-- I don't want him to chew or anything like that. Um, so I know I need to, especially before he gets old enough to understand what mommy's doing, but I just don't know if I can do it.	labels:Okay. So it sounds like you have a lot of reasons why you'd like to quit. You have been successful quitting in the past, and right now you're just feeling a little bit hesitant about your ability to do it?
text:Yeah.	labels:Where do you think we should go from here?
text:I don't know. I-I'd like some help. I just don't know what kind of help I need.	labels:Sure. Well, if you'd be interested, that's something I can definitely talk to you about. There are a lot of new options that can actually help people be way more successful in their attempt at quitting. There's different medications you can try.
text:I don't like medicine.	labels:Okay. There's also a lot of support groups and classes that you can take where you have other people to go through it with you. And sometimes just having that support can be a big part of it, especially for people like you where smoking is such a stress reliever.
text:That sounds nice, but I'm not sure if I have the time for all that.	labels:Sure. It feels like something that would take up a lot of time and maybe not fit into your life. I wonder if we could talk about some options that might fit into your life.
text:That would be really nice.	labels:Okay. Well, if you're willing, then we could set up another appointment where you could come in and we could talk more about that.
text:I would like that. That would be great.	labels:Great.
text:Thank you.	labels:Sure.	episode:True
text:Hi.	labels:Thanks for coming in. Um, so, I'm not sure how much you know already about sort of what you're doing here. If it's okay, I'll give you a little rundown.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, basically, we're here, I'm just gonna talk to you for a little bit about sort of what your goals are for your life, um, get to know you a little bit better and talk about some different behaviors that you might be engaging in. It's not my job at all to judge you or to try and change you, you know. Basically, I'm gonna talk to you about how things are going, any changes you might want to make in your life, how I could help you with that, and just what I can do that's going to be most beneficial for you.
text:Okay.	labels:Does that sound okay?
text:Yeah.	labels:All right, so, I guess just to get started, can you tell me a little bit about yourself?
text:Well, my name is Laura. I'm 17 years old, and I'm a senior in high school.	labels:Okay. And, what kinds of things do you plan for your life?
text:Well, hopefully, go to college, get, you know, good enough grades to go to college.	labels:Hm.
text:Yeah.	labels:That's great.
text:Yeah.	labels:Do you have a plan as to where you might want to go or?
text:Um, I'm not sure yet. Maybe a few schools in the area, I'm looking maybe to apply out-of-state.	labels:Oh.
text:So, maybe move away for college.	labels:Cool.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, kind of keeping your options open.
text:Yeah, definitely.	labels:Great. And, do you have an idea about what you might want to study or?
text:Yeah, maybe um, pre-law.	labels:Oh, wow. Okay, that's exciting.
text:Yeah.	labels:All right, cool. Uh, what do you like to do for fun?
text:Well, um, on the weekends I like to hang out with my friends, maybe go to like a party, or go to the mall to shop, or if there's like a school-related event, we'll go to like a football game or-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-something like that, yeah.	labels:You like to have a good time?
text:Yeah.	labels:And, you have a lot of friends or a few close people, or?
text:Um, I would say like a moderate amount. I'm not really-really popular or like, I have no friends.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So, I'm like normal.	labels:All right.
text:Yeah.	labels:That's a good way to be, right?
text:Yeah. [chuckles]	labels:All right, so, um, it sounds like, in general, your-- Things are going pretty well for you. How are your grades right now?
text:Um, they're pretty good, As and Bs. So, I'm doing okay.	labels:Okay.
text:Through college.	labels:Great. Well, one thing I want to ask about is, you know, different people have sort of different values or things that are important to them. They might, you know, be really close with family or really have, you know, their friends as being something particularly important. So, I'm gonna show you just a few things on this sheet, and if you can look at them all. So, there's things like belonging, community, cultural identity, family, friendship, modesty, religion, respect, self-determination and spirituality. Which of those do you think is sort of important to you?
text:Um, family definitely, uh, friendship, and belonging.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:What's important to you about your family?
text:Well, I-I love them, so I want them to think well of me-	labels:Hm.
text:-and I want them to, um, be accepting and love me.	labels:Okay. Do you have brothers or sisters?
text:Yeah, I have one sister.	labels:Okay, great. And, how about friendship?
text:Friendship, um, I've-I've grown close to many people that I care about. So, I would like them to be accepting of me as well.	labels:Great. So, being a good friend and-
text:Yeah.	labels:-having people who are good friends, too, is important. And then, what about belonging? You mentioned that one too.
text:Yeah, just a sense of like fitting in and not-- And like getting accepted-	labels:Hm.
text:-in general, yeah.	labels:Yeah. Wanting to be part of a group-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and kinda. Okay, great. All right, well, one of the things I wanna talk about is, you know, um, you mentioned that you'd like to go out with friends and-and party, and that sort of a thing. And, I'm curious, when you're out in the parties, do you ever have any alcohol?
text:Um, not much, maybe like one or two drinks at the most.	labels:Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about how alcohol fits into your overall social scene?
text:Um, I pretty much just have a drink to just have it like, so it looks like I'm drinking, even though I'm not.	labels:Hm.
text:So maybe people won't bug me about drinking or something.	labels:Okay, you're kinda getting pressure from other people who are drinking, and it feels easier for you to-
text:-have one there and pretending to have it.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:And, do you think that, um, this is most weekends or occasionally? How-
text:Um.	labels:-often do you think that you are around alcohol.
text:Maybe one or two weekends a month at the most?	labels:Okay.
text:Not really much.	labels:So, one or two weekends a month you're in a situation where there is alcohol?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. And what sort of situations are you in?
text:Well, just I guess, at a party or something, someone's house.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:Or, even if it's not a party, like a small social gathering, maybe there'll be like a few beers around-	labels:Hm.
text:-or something.	labels:So, mainly, just kinda hanging out with friends.
text:Pretty much, yeah.	labels:Are you ever, um, places where there are parents around or-
text:Um—	labels:-or mostly just-just with the kids?
text:Mostly just with us, but, sometimes I'll go to like a close friend's house and like I'm close to a family as well. So, we'll all just hang out.	labels:Mm-hmm. And, what about driving?
text:Um, like drunk driving?	labels:Yeah. Do you ever go anywhere in a car after you've had any alcohol?
text:Um, definitely not. I've never drunk-driven, and I've never been in a car with a drunk driver.	labels:Okay. So, that's something that you've sort of made a decision about. It sound like you—
text:Yeah, because I know that's extremely dangerous, so.	labels:Okay. What do you know about how that's dangerous?
text:Um, well, alcohol definitely impairs your judgment. So, I mean, driving under the influence of alcohol can lead to like crashes and accidents and things like that, so I'd rather not be in that situation.	labels:So, you're really are trying to be safe and-and make sure that-
text:Yeah.	labels:-you're not putting yourself-
text:Yeah, definitely.	labels:-in those situations? That's great. You know, it's-it's tough to do sometimes, and I really commend you for being able to-to stick with that.
text:Thank you.	labels:So, you mentioned, you pretty much will like hold a drink or maybe have a drink or two. What do you thinks is the most alcohol you've ever had in-in one day?
text:Not more than two drinks.	labels:Okay. So, the-the absolute most-
text:Yeah.	labels:-was two? Okay. And, what kinds of things do you like about alcohol?
text:Um, I've never really been drunk-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:-so, I can't really say that I like that feeling or not, but, it's just like-- I mean, you're just in a good mood.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So.	labels:So, it just kind of makes you feel relaxed or?
text:Yeah, yeah, relaxed.	labels:Okay. Uh, anything else?
text:Um, no, not really. Like I said, I don't drink that much-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So, I-I wouldn't be able to tell you.	labels:Okay. And, any not-so-good things about alcohol?
text:Um, definitely, yeah. I mean, when I'm at parties and stuff and it's getting a little later, some people, um, that drink-- Like, drank too much, they start throwing up, or they get hurt, or they're really loud and obnoxious, and that's not fun for anybody.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, you've seen a lot of other kids who-
text:Yeah.	labels:-had some consequences-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and decided that's not for you?
text:Yeah.	labels:Got it. I-I can understand that. [chuckles] Uh, any other things that you can think of?
text:Um, no, I mean, I've never, you know, been friends with anybody that's gotten into like a serious accident and stuff. It's just-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-very, like, obnoxious things.	labels:Okay. Well, so, you know, as someone who's not 21 yet, it is-- Underage drinking is something that's not legal-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and it is something that is considered pretty risky. So, I wonder what you think about that, just in terms of how it fits into your life.
text:Um, I know it's definitely risky, but, I mean, I guess, we still do it. [chuckles]	labels:Uh-huh. So, it's kind of something that you're—
text:It's just there.	labels:It's just there? Okay. And, I'm curious, you mentioned, you know, your friends are important to you, and your family's important to you, and, sort of fitting in is important to you. How does alcohol play a role with that?
text:Um, well, definitely not in my family life, because my parents don't really condone-	labels:Okay.
text:-alcohol use, but, friendships, I mean, when I'm hanging out with my friends, or we're at a party or something, there's usually alcohol involved.	labels:Okay. So, from your family perspective, the drinking is not something that fits very well?
text:Yeah.	labels:And with friends, you feel like it's easier to-to hang out with alcohol, or maybe you wouldn't have as much fun, or your friends wouldn't like you as much or?
text:I guess, I mean, since it's just there.	labels:Okay.
text:So-	labels:Got it.
text:-it ties in with the whole belonging thing.	labels:Okay. Well, when you think about your drinking and, sort of, looking forward in 5 years or 10 years, how do you think that drinking might fit in with your life?
text:Um, it probably will have a very small role, if any-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-in my life, considering I have big plans for my future. So.	labels:Okay. Can you expand on that a little bit more? What do you mean?
text:I mean, I don't think I would be, you know, drinking as much or going to parties as much if I'm studying for school, or in college, or trying to get in law school and things like that.	labels:Okay, so, the-the alcohol is something that might make it harder to reach your goals?
text:Yeah, definitely.	labels:Um, so, when you're sort of looking ahead, how often do you think you might be drinking, say, when you get to college?
text:Um, maybe less than I am now. I mean, I don't drink much anyway, so-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-maybe, like, one drink every once in a blue moon.	labels:Okay. So, you sort of have a plan to cut back on-
text:Yeah, definitely.	labels:-your drinking eventually?
text:For sure.	labels:How might that go?
text:Well, I mean, I guess right now I would try to stop in high school, and once I get older, maybe just like, socially once in a while, but not anything big or anything.	labels:Yeah, so, you don't feel the need to make any major changes, but you feel like you could make some adjustments that would make it easier or—
text:Definitely, yeah. That's a good word.	labels:Okay. How important is it to you to make some adjustments to your drinking, on a scale of 1 to 10? Where 1 is not at all important, not something you're thinking about, and 10 is most important thing.
text:Maybe a five or six.	labels:And why did you say five or six rather than like two or three?
text:Because, um, it's not something I do not care about at all, but it's not something that's just constantly on my mind that I want to change about myself.	labels:Okay. So, it is something you have thought about or something.
text:Yeah, yeah. Definitely.	labels:Okay. And, how confident are you that you could make a change if you decide you wanted to on that same scale?
text:Um, I'm pretty confident that I can considering that I'm not really an alcohol user per se.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I'm not really into that whole scene, so, it's-it's not gonna bedifficult for me.	labels:So, what number do you think you'd say?
text:Um, on a scale of 1 to 10-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-if I can quit or not?	labels:Yeah.
text:Maybe like an 8 or 9.	labels:Okay, and why'd you say 8 or 9 rather than even like 5 or 6?
text:Because, like I said, it's not a big part of my life. So, it's not really that difficult	labels:Okay. All right. Well, kind of keeping that in mind, it sounds like, um, you do have sort of a-a vague plan to make some adjustments in your drinking at some point-
text:Yes.	labels:-and, it's moderately important to you. It's something you would like to do because you have these big goals for yourself, and you actually feel very confident that you could be successful with it. What sort of goal do you think might be good to set for today?
text:Um, probably to stop, maybe next party I go to, not have a drink at all.	labels:Okay. Um, do you feel pretty confident that you could just stop completely?
text:Yeah. I mean, I can just tell my friends-- My pa-- My friends aren't really that pressuring.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:It's just like outside people that I don't really know that well.	labels:Okay.
text:So, I could just tell them, "Hey, I don't feel like having a drink today."	labels:What-what might be some benefits of following through with that goal?
text:Um, definitely, I'll have like all my senses there and I'll be aware of everything that's going on.	labels:Uh-huh. Anything else?
text:Um, health concerns, I guess. I know alcohol is bad for your health.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So, that would be one.	labels:Okay. So, it's-- It sounds like you're actually pretty comfortable with setting a goal of not drinking anymore a-at least at the next part? and seeing how it goes.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. Do you think it would be all right if we met again to kinda check in on how it goes and-and see if it's working out for you?
text:Yeah, that would be okay.	labels:All right, great. And then, i-it sounds like some of the benefits you're expecting are, um, health benefits-
text:Yeah.	labels:-having an easier time with achieving your academic and career goals, and just sort of not having to deal with some of the consequences that your peers do.
text:Right.	labels:Okay. Well, very good. Um, is there anything else that you think would be important for me to know?
text:Um, how would you, um, advise me to like get maybe my friends to stop drinking?	labels:Oh, that's a great question. So, a lot of times, kids who are trying to cut back, it's harder if their friends are still drinking, and one of the easiest things is trying to have more activities that don't involve alcohol, but-
text:Okay, yeah.	labels:-of course, that's harder if you're not the one planning. So, some of the things that can be useful if you're at a party say, um, and there's already alcohol there, and there are other kids that maybe aren't your closest friends, um, some of the things that I would recommend since you're interested are, you know, carrying around a different drink that looks like it has alcohol in it. So, you know, even carrying an empty beer bottle or beer can or, you know, if people are having a mixed drink, just having the coke, say-
text:Oh okay.	labels:-without any alcohol mixed into it. Um, often, having anything in your hand is a good barrier for people who are trying to offer you alcohol, because you already have something in your hand-
text:Yeah, that's a good idea.	labels:-and it-it kinda, um, prevents them from trying to stuff something else in there. Do you think any of those things might work for you?
text:Yeah, for sure.	labels:Okay. What about in terms of talking to your friends about it, have you thought about how you might approach with them or is that something else you'd like some tips about, about telling them about your plan to-
text:I mean-	labels:-to stop drinking.
text:-I was just planning on telling them that I don't really want to drink anymore. That wasn't me.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:So.	labels:Your friends would be pretty comfortable with that?
text:Yeah. I mean, at least my closest friends, for sure.	labels:Okay, great. Any other concerns or questions? Anything else I can help with?
text:No. No, I think I'm okay.	labels:Okay. So then, like I said, um, I'll try and see if we can meet up maybe in a few weeks and see how it's going-
text:Okay.	labels:-and then, um, if things are going great, then fantastic, and if you run into any stumbling blocks, then we can maybe problem-solve together.
text:Okay, great. Thanks.	labels:That sound okay?
text:Yeah.	labels:All right. Thanks so much.
text:Yes, um, my top value is family happiness, um, that's-	labels:That's number one?
text:-that's number one to me, especially now. I usually do this values clarification sheet, like, every two to three months-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-just to see if anything changed, and every time it has changed.	labels:Oh. So, right now family value is the most important thing to you?
text:Yes.	labels:Family happiness?
text:Yes, it's the most important because it's a little lacking, so I know that that's something that is very important to me.	labels:Okay. Would you like to talk more about that?
text:Yeah. Um, I can just pretty much say that my family hasn't been on one accord, so, like, if-- I feel like if we all just can fall in the middle, which I know everybody doesn't really follow that track. So, um, I think for my part, 'cause I can't change anybody, is to be more present and, um, just listen and understand my family members, and-and be able to voice what I feel as far as how important family happiness-happiness is to me.	labels:Mm. Because even though it's important to you, maybe they don't know it's important to you.
text:Yes.	labels:Is that what you're saying? Yes?
text:Yeah.	labels:And you want them to know?
text:And I want them to know how important it is to me, especially now, and I do this, like I said, every two to three months just to see where I am.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:And, um, these definitely are different from-	labels:Okay.
text:-what I usually pick.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, and then the second one I said is religion. Um, it was number one at first, um, but somehow with a big situation that happened in my family you kind of lose sight of your faith a little bit, which is normal. And not a lot of people-- They, uh-- Well, in my church home, i-it just seems like, "Oh, you lost touch of God, oh my gosh, you're the devil."	labels:Uh-huh.
text:You know? And it's kind of like, well we all face those challenges every day, we're not perfect, you know? And I feel like my faith is still there but it's-- You know, as long as it's still there, that's all that matters.	labels:Right. So, right now, it really is important to you to put the family values first? And religion is still very important to you, but you feel like maybe you're losing faith a little bit?
text:Yeah. I lost faith, and so I'm not afraid to say it.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:You know? And once you say [unintelligible 00:03:12] people that don't really feel like that's—	labels:Because you know that other people experience it too.
text:Yeah, I know that.	labels:So, you know it's normal.
text:I know that it's normal.	labels:But sometimes it's not something that people talk about.
text:Yeah, well, it's a—	labels:Especially in the church.
text:Yeah, it's like a shock to them when you say something like that. And it's like, "Well, we all go through things where we're just not sure, and--" I still have a little bit, I'm not saying that I'm off track, you know? I still have a little bit to go on. And the little bit that I do have are the positive things in my life that I look at and I'm like, "Okay, well, I'm not in this situation, so I'm thankful," and-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-you know, I'd still have faith to keep going on, but sometimes you feel as though, "Where is God?"	labels:Yeah.
text:You know?	labels:And it sounds like right now you're at a place of acceptance about that also.
text:Yes.	labels:Uh, that it's okay with you, and you-you know that it's gonna change because that's been your, uh, experience.
text:Yes.	labels:You've done numerous values clarification handouts and every time they're different-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-so you know that it's going to change.
text:Yeah.	labels:And you accept that?
text:I've accepted that. At first, I was like, "Whoa," I think I was focused too much on the first time I did it-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-then the second time that I did it-- I did five of these total-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-but the second time that I did it I was so focused on, "What did I read about last time?" You know?	labels:Yeah.
text:So, and I just went ahead and blanked that out and I just went and I-	labels:Yes.
text:-compared and I was like, "Oh wow."	labels:I really applaud you for being open-minded enough to realize that where you are now is not necessarily where you are, that you don't have to always have it be the same.
text:Mm-hmm, and that's what I felt wasn't-- At first I was like, "Is that not normal?" You know?	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:But, I noticed people go through things every day. I go through things in life. Things are gonna change.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Things do not stay the same. Um, you know, like, you may be here, you're gonna go there, you're gonna go over there, not necessarily saying you're gonna fall down, but your view on life changes the more experience, the more life, every day-	labels:Yeah.
text:-every day your eyes-- Well, to me, my eyes have gotten broader, and broader, and broader. So—	labels:Right.
text:I don't limit myself to change anymore, I just kind of fill it out, and then [unintelligible 00:05:38] I'm like, "Okay."	labels:All right.
text:That's cool, so I'll focus more on that, than on the unnecessary stuff in my life.	labels:Mm-hmm. Do you feel that there are some parts of your life where you'd like to be more in line with your values, or do you feel like you're really on target with them?
text:Um, I mentioned before that it was kind of, like, out of place for me, because when I did this one in particular, um, as-as-- I stated that there were-- The other three were important to me, but I haven't focused on it so I'm like, "Okay, it's important to me," so I lost track of that and the other three—	labels:The other three?
text:Um, number three was health.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Number four is inner harmony, and number five is security.	labels:Inner harmony, health, and security-
text:Yes.	labels:-are the other three?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:And the top two are family happiness and religion?
text:And religion.	labels:Okay, and the three- the three other ones, inner harmony-- Let me see if I can remember them. Inner harmony, health and, what was the other one?
text:Security.	labels:Security.
text:Yeah.	labels:Inner harmony, health, and security.
text:Yeah.	labels:You feel like you're not really paying as much attention to them as you would want to?
text:Yeah, because when I saw it I was like, "Okay, yeah, that's one, that's one, and that's one."	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:But—	labels:Is it because a lot of your time is being taken with the first two or?
text:A lot of my time is being taken with, um, number one especially-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and, uh, I learned about the different way of looking at self-esteem.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and I've been definitely esteeming others.	labels:Uh.
text:So, I've had, um, less time to have some inner harmony.	labels:Oh yeah, right. The family has been so much coming first that you have sort of taken a back seat?
text:Yes.	labels:You're not even on-- Are you on the schedule at all? Meaning of time in a day dedicated? Is most of it going to your family?
text:Most of it goes to everything else, but me.	labels:Okay.
text:And, uh, like, I don't even—	labels:It's gonna be hard to achieve inner harmony-
text:Yeah.	labels:-if you're always running around taking care of everybody.
text:And I feel like inner harmony first comes with sleep. [laughter] I haven't been able to sleep lately.	labels:Right.
text:But, um-	labels:Yeah.
text:-I think that's the first step, but I just, like-- Oh my gosh, I'm just overwhelmed, um, but I would like to gain that back, inner harmony, inner peace-	labels:Okay.
text:-because when I was, you know, 18 I was just so, like, free-spirited, open-minded. I was living life, now that I look at it, as a fairy tale.	labels:Mm. Mm-hmm.
text:And so I got knocked to reality and reality said, "This is not a fairy tale." Um, you're now on board. Like—	labels:Okay.
text:And so I felt like, "This is not about you, you know, this is about everyone else."	labels:Mm. So, something dramatic happened?
text:Yeah.	labels:That kind of shocked you out of that fairy tale life-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-and into a take care of everyone else thing?
text:Yeah-	labels:Okay.
text:-definitely, and the shock just keeps getting.	labels:Okay. Well, I really enjoyed having the time to be able to sit down and talk to you about your values. I hope that it's been helpful to you, and in the future, if I can support even any way in helping some of those other values get a little bit more attention, we can talk about that next time.
text:Thank you for listening.	labels:Okay. All right? You're welcome.	episode:True
text:Hi.	labels:So I understand that you were referred to me by your GP because you've been experiencing some anxiety difficulties.
text:Yeah. Um, yeah, I guess it kind of- it kind of started like five, six years ago.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, it kind of escalated a bit. Um, I've just recently moved out, um, from living with my parents. So just made it a bit worse, I think.	labels:Okay. Is this the first time that you've left home?
text:Yeah, I am- Yeah. It's the first time actually, yeah. Um, I was going to a few years ago. I just thought it'd be easier to stay at home, so.	labels:Okay. So it has been quite a big step and a big change and it sounds like that that was what led you to go to your GP.
text:Yeah.	labels:So how has that, uh, changed things for you?
text:Um, don't know, it's kind of, I haven't really told anyone, so, I mean, it's made it like better in sense. I feel, hopefully this is, this is it like, it- it'll help, but I don't know. I don't like thinking that I've like have to do this. I never thought I'd like be the kind of person you'd have to actually go and like get help if that makes sense.	labels:Okay. So how do you feel about being here today?
text:It's like scared. I don't know. Hopefully, it will help.	labels:Okay. So you'd, you're feeling a little bit anxious about today.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So I guess just going back to why you went to the GP and how you've ended up kind of coming here today. So it sounds like you've been experiencing anxiety for quite a few years. Um, but just recently you moved out of home for the first time and, um, and that was what kind of led you to go to the GP. So how did that change things? How were things after you moved out?
text:Um, I thought that they'd be better, but 'cause I thought I'd have to kind of be independent and I suppose actually a lot worse. So I'm-I'm just kind of staying in the house a lot. I don't really have any friends or anything. I mean my family come and visit a bit, but it's not-- I don't know. It's kind of scary because I've just been kind of-- that should just end the flight by myself, which I always thought I'd like, but I don't actually like it.	labels:Okay. So what other kinds of difficulties that you have been experiencing?
text:Um, I mean, I'm-I'm a photographer. Um, so I kind of-- It's-it's been stopping me a bit, my anxiety, from being able to get work and because every time, you know, there's, uh, an opportunity that is kind of involving me having to interact with people, I just tend to just turn it down. So it was kind of making things hard in that respect and um, just kind of friends wise and everything. I just feel like I'm just kind of increasingly more alone. So it's kind of stopping me from making friends and, you know, like relationships and stuff.	labels:Okay. So you said that, um, your difficulties are getting in the way of you doing certain things. So they're, they're stopping you from taking up kind of certain types of work and as a freelance photographer, I guess that- that can be kind of a problem. And they're also stopping you or you feel like it's stunting you, uh, socially. You're not kind of able to make new friends and get to meet new people.
text:Yeah, yeah. Um, it was kind of easier when I was at home because I was obviously, I mean, my parents, so it's fine, but you know, they would, I'd go to places with, um, or I'd kind of have people there, but more and more, I'm just finding myself just staying in a lot. I mean-- I went like two weeks ago for coffee with my friends and the whole time I was just kind of wanting to go home again. So I don't, I just don't want to-- I don't want that to happen. I don't want to lose everyone. So-	labels:So you're kind of worried about how, where this is going to lead to.
text:Yeah. Um, yeah.	labels:So you said that you first noticed the anxiety kicking in about five or six years ago.
text:Yeah.	labels:So you would have been about 19.
text:Yeah.	labels:And what was happening around that time?
text:Uh, I guess I'd finished school about a year before that. Um, and I mean, I-I've always been a bit shy, um, at school, but it was never ever, uh, like it didn't really affect the things as much as not at all as much as it has been doing the last few years ago, I guess. It just started when I- like my friends went to university, and, I don't know, I felt like I was expected to kind of move out or do something and then it just kind of escalated from there.I just stop going to parties or I'd just say no to invitations or I don't know, I thought my job would help because I mean, I love it. I've- I really like doing photography, but I'm just kind of getting less and less work as it goes on, so, which is my thing, you know, but—	labels:What kind of work is the most difficult for you in your job?
text:I guess when it- I have to kind of be working with other people. Um, I don't like that. It's like when I'm trying to kind of- would do an event or something where there's a lot of people there, not just photographers, but actual, you know, if I'm like taking places with people that I don't know, I just kind of find myself saying, you know, I mean, I want to do them, but just is scary. So I just don't do it.	labels:So I guess, tell me a bit more about what happens then. So let's focus on maybe an invitation to do a job with, uh, you know, it's going to involve, uh, photography with- with a group of people and you're going to have to have social interaction. What kind of thoughts go through your head?
text:Um, just, I mean, I get really hot and sweaty, and I don't-- I feel like everyone's kind of looking at me and thinking that I'm just like really stupid, and I feel like they're all going to be staring and thinking, I just can't do my job. And I'm just an idiot. And I mean, they'll think that I just look like a weirdo and I just try and-- I mean, I just kind of just try and get out of the situation or just focus on something else. So that's why I like doing shots where it's just me and the camera 'cause I- then I can just put all my attention on that instead of having to, you know, be with other people.	labels:Okay. So it sounds like you have quite a lot of thoughts rushing through your head then at the point where you get that invitation and you think, "People will look, people will stare, people will think I'm a weirdo." So there's quite a lot about what you- what you think other the people will think. And how does that make you feel?
text:Um, just makes me feel like an idiot, makes me feel like I just shouldn't even bother trying to do it anymore. I should just go home and I just-- I think I just don't want to be in that situation. I just feel like everyone else is fine and they're normal and I'm just the freak, you can't, like do normal things and—	labels:Okay. Can you give me an example of a-a recent situation? Maybe we can focus on that.
text:Um, like a work situation or just--?	labels:Yeah, time when you were maybe doing a job with some people and you felt the social anxiety, you know, that you're describing, you felt that kick in.
text:Yeah. I was doing a job where it was kind of like a- a Nature issue and I was having to work with a lot of different people. Um, and, um, when they told me about the job, I thought it would be fine. I thought it was just going to be a few other photographers, but there were actually people and, you know, I was taking photos of people kind of in the trees and stuff like that. And I guess- they asked me to, um—	labels:It's quite interesting. Was that a fashion shoot or something?
text:Yeah. Yeah. It was a fashion thing. I think it was for some kind of-- I'm not sure if it was a campaign or something, but, it was-	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah, it was, yeah, it was really cool, but I find it- found it really hard to try and focus on that 'cause I was so- I was kind of feeling really anxious and—	labels:So it wasn't what you expected?
text:No. No.	labels:So how long ago was that?
text:That was two weeks ago.	labels:Okay. So it was quite recent.
text:Yeah.	labels:So on that particular day, what were the thoughts that you had in your head when you were in that situation?
text:I just felt really- just really kind of hot. I couldn't really breathe and just felt like I wanted to just get out. And I was kind of trying really, really hard to just focus, and just, you know, like kind of hold the camera and just not think about anything, but I just felt like everyone was looking at me and like, when they'd say 'action' and they're trying to get me to start and I was just felt like everyone was just thinking I was really stupid and I shouldn't have been there and—	labels:I can tell you're getting kind of anxious, even just thinking about that day.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So you're describing quite a lot there to me. So you're saying that you, you kind of got hot and sweaty, you said that you- you held the camera.
text:Yeah.	labels:W-what was, do you mean you kind of try to hide behind it or?
text:I was just trying to focus on it. I was just thinking if I could just hold it really tightly, it would just-- I don't know. I'd kind of just be able to just get through it and just focus.	labels:So you're holding the camera very tightly.
text:Yeah.	labels:W-why was that? Why was that helpful?
text:Cause I felt like I was getting really like hot and flushed and I just thought, at least if I can just-- I don't know. It sounds weird, but I was just trying to keep my hands still on it. 'Cause my hands were kind of sweaty and like shaking like loads, like, and I could just tell everyone was looking and they could see, and I just thought if I just managed to hold onto it, it wouldn't be as noticeable, but—	labels:Okay. So, okay. So it sounds like you had a lot of thoughts going through your head. Um, you said that you're worried that everyone's looking at you. What other thoughts were there that were in your mind?
text:Just-- I was just, just stupid and it was just really-- just felt really like kind of- like everyone was just going to be staring and just thinking that I-- Like- I just felt like everyone was looking at me and just, they could tell. And then just thinking of what was she doing?	labels:They could tell what—
text:I was just really like sweaty and just—	labels:Oh, it was all-all that they could see that-that was-
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah, um, I was trying to wear black so this kind of tries to cover it up and just like a lot of layers, so they can't tell but, I mean, my hands, like, they were so shaken. I was really red and just was-- Just wishing that I just wasn't there.	labels:So, I mean, you've already described it to me a little bit, but if you think about how you looked that day, how'd-how'd you say, how'd you think you looked?
text:I think just very stupid and, like, I think my face was really red. I could feel it flushing and I knew that I'd- I was probably sweating and shaking, like my hands were definitely really really shaking. Um, and af-- it was, like definitely really noticeable. Everyone could definitely see.	labels:Okay and what-what did you do about-- How did you try and conceal that or hide that?
text:Um, well, I again was trying to grip the camera, just look down, just trying not to do anything weird or-- 'Cause, I mean, they could probably tell I was being weird anyway, but hopefully if-- I just- I just tried really hard to just focus and look down, not trying, like not kind-- look at anyone else and just, yeah, just kind of trying get on with it as best as I could, but—	labels:So you avoided looking at people. It sounds like you wore black as well in kind of preparation anyway.
text:Yeah, no, I-I always do that even if it's really hot or I wear just loads of layers and just 'cause otherwise I- I'll just be really sweaty and like, people would definitely be able to see, so.	labels:Okay and how did it end?
text:Um, well, it kind of went on for like an hour or so, and then, um, people were going, um, just a-after every shoot people go out for drinks after just to kind of celebrate like that we've done it. I'd just- I went home straight away, just got on my car and went home. I just didn't want to be around them especially after they would've seen me being weird and I just wanted to get-get home straight away.	labels:Okay.	episode:True
text:Yeah, I hope so. Um, my workplace has just gone smoke-free. I-I'm not-not very happy about it. I'm gonna keep smoking, but I was wondering if there's anything that-that can help me like get through the day. It's like, you know, go get my beer and smoke cigarettes after work.	labels:So your workplaces went smoke-free and you're not too pleased, huh?
text:No. I'm not gonna quit smoking. I mean, I like it. It helps me relax. So, I mean, I don't see what the big deal is.	labels:Okay. Tell me a little bit about how smoking fits in your day. It'll help with the—
text:I mean, I smoke a little less than a pack a day. It's not too bad. Um, I've probably smoked for the last five years, but I-I-I mean, could quit if I wanted to, but I don't really want to right now.	labels:Okay. So you feel like, right now, smoking's a pretty important part of your life. It's not something you're ready to change, but if the time came when you did decide to quit, you feel pretty confident that you could go ahead and do that.
text:Sure. I can quit.	labels:Okay. What makes you so confident?
text:Well, I mean, I don't see why I couldn't, I-- although I have not ever tried to quit, it's just something that I do for fun, you know, on breaks at work, in the morning, and after work.	labels:Mm-hmm. And so in terms of, uh, uh, readiness to actually go ahead and make a quit attempt, where do you think you fall on the scale of 1 to 10, where one is, I'm not considering it at all, and 10 is, I'm definitely ready, I wanna quit.
text:I am probably a two. I-I haven't even thought about quitting and until this great announcement at work today, I- I'm totally not gonna quit smoking.	labels:Okay. What made you say two instead of one?
text:Well, I mean, anything's possible. I mean, I-I guess I could maybe be convinced. Yeah. Is there some-- I mean, are there things I can try that would make me like want to quit smoking?	labels:Well, there are a lot of products available now that can actually help you curb that urge to smoke. We have products that can help to replace nicotine, which can help to decrease withdrawal symptoms that you might experience when quitting or cutting down and also some medications that your doctor could prescribe for you that might take away even some of the desire to smoke.
text:Okay. Well, that’s good information. I mean, I'm not gonna do anything today. I just need to know my options, but that's encouraging. If I decided to quit smoking, I-I do have at least tools to help me.	labels:Sure. And back to that scale, you mentioned, you said you were a two. What do you think it would take to move you up to a four or five?
text:I don't know. I guess if my friends, like if one of my friends decided to like quit with me, that would probably help too, but I-- all my friends love to smoke, so I don't see that happening in the near future.	labels:Sure. I wonder if now that your workplace is going smoke-free, if there will be some people at work who planning to quit.
text:That's a good point. I hadn't really thought about that. That-that's a good idea. Yeah.	labels:Okay. Well, it sounds like you're really here just for information today. I'm happy to help you pick out some of these products if and when you decide that the time is right for you.
text:Um, I really want to start working out again. Definitely wanna get back in it, have a routine, and just be healthy.	labels:Okay, and-and why would you want to make this change?
text:Um, I'm sick of feeling the way I do. I feel kinda sluggish. Especially with the winter coming, I think I want to have more energy.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um, I don't like the way my clothes fit or don't fit me.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Just, I don't feel comfortable.	labels:Yeah. So, you're not feeling comfortable with the way that, you said, your clothes fit.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:What are some of the reasons why, um, it would be good for you to kinda make this change?
text:Um, I know exercise is-- in the past, has always made me feel good. I felt good about myself, and just in general, exercise, I know, makes me feel good. I want to be a good example for my kids. I want them to feel like that's a part of life-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-exercising. So, I want-- I really just want to go get back in a routine.	labels:So, to heal-- feel healthy for yourself as well be a good role model for your kids?
text:Yeah.	labels:So, if you did decide to get exercising more into your daily routine, how would you go about doing it?
text:Um, I don't know. I'd probably have to sit down maybe with my husband and try to figure out a good time for me to be able to do that, where he'd be home with the kids and I'd be going to do that, whether it's morning-time, evening, maybe the weekends.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Just to find the time to be able to do it, or what works in our schedule.	labels:So, it's that balance of doing something for yourself, but it sounds like you don't want that schedule to affect too much into your family routine.
text:Right, yeah.	labels:So, on a scale from 1 to 10, 1 being not important and 10 being very important, where would you rate yourself on how important it is to start exercising more?
text:Mm, I would like to say a seven or an eight, that that's how important it is to me.	labels:Okay, and how come not at like a five or a six?
text:Because I'm really sick of being overweight.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Not ha-- I just don't like being unhealthy. It doesn't make me feel good, so I'm motivated to change, it's just getting there.	labels:So, to summarize, it's important for you to do this. You're starting to feel sluggish, you're not feeling healthy, and you know that you've got other people in your family watching you, and you want to be a good role model for them to know that this is gonna be just a part of your life, is your exercise. Yet for you, you're struggling just a little with the logistics of when to schedule time for you so it doesn't interfere too much with your family.
text:Exactly, yeah.	labels:So, knowing this, what do you think you'll do next?
text:Mm, I'll probably, I don't know, find-- Now, while it's still somewhat okay outside, maybe pick days I'm gonna go for walks or runs, um, maybe look for a gym close to the house so that I know I can go there quickly or maybe that has daycare, um, yeah, maybe I'll just start to look for that, and find ways I can do it first.	labels:That's great. It sounds like you've got some options and leads on how- on how to get that done.
text:I just want my call, that's it.	labels:All right. yeah, I was told that you're phone calls was taken away
text:[scoffs] Yeah.	labels:What-what happened?
text:I don't know. Some of-- One of the officers, it's like he has it out for me or something. I don't- I don't know what it is. Something about me not making my bed, something about my attitude. I don't know, I just want my call, man.	labels:Okay. yeah, it was weird when I, uh, got that report because for the most part since you've been here, uh, you'd been like, uh, model-model resident, uh, always making their bed, uh, been pretty, uh, respectful of the staff, of all the other residents. So, uh, is it something to do with you getting out in three weeks? It must be pretty hard.
text:I just wanna contact my mom, that's it.	labels:Mm-hmm. Yeah, you used to have contact with your mom, you know, almost every other night and now for just about a week, you haven't even gotten to talk to her. I can imagine that being pretty difficult. I remember you saying something about like your dad's birthday coming up?
text:My dad's birthday is tomorrow.	labels:Okay.
text:And I just wanted my call so I can talk to my mom. That's it.	labels:Like I said, it's been, um, a long time and this is basically the first time that we've seen this behavior from you, so I know for a lot of other guys right before they get out, uh, a lot of anxiety, a lot of frustration comes around because they haven't been out in a while and then like the pressures of being on the outside are starting to settle in. So is that something might be going on with you?	episode:True
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah, I de-I definitely don't wanna come back here. But, uh, the doc said Oscar, my dog, is connected to my asthma symptoms. But the-	labels:Yeah.
text:-ridiculous part is I've had him for 12 years before, and now it's a problem.	labels:Well, you sound a bit surprised by that. But I'm sure that you've seen some of the material that-that the clinic gave you about asthma symptoms and managing your asthma, and pets are a really big source of problems in that respect.
text:Yeah, but I-- Um, let me just clarify, I've seen the materials, I have them-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-I have even read them. All I've been doing is taking the medicine. So, I don't know that much about this.	labels:Well, uh, wait a second, Sal, what do you mean you-you- ha- If you-- As in-- You know to be informed about-- I'm just really taken aback by that because I understand from your chart that you have a young baby-
text:Yeah.	labels:-a new baby.
text:John Carlo, yeah.	labels:-and you are very concerned about your health, you wanna be there for your baby and that you've already taken some steps, you've-you've almost quit smoking-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-which is fantastic. So, the next step is to really deal with the dog, deal with the pet. I know it's- so- It's gonna be hard to do that. But there are always people who will adopt animals. I'm sure that you have friends or family members.
text:Uh, this is a little too much for me now. First of all, John Carlo is taken care of. That's fine. He doesn't have- no asthma from the dog. It's just me. I don't ha—	labels:It's you that I'm worried about, Sal. It's you that I'm worried about, okay? The-the symptoms are worse. You've had two or three major asthma attacks. And-and do you appreciate how-- This is, uh, a risk to your life that there are some-some adults with severe asthma who actually can die as a result of their symptoms? It-it truly is something to take very, very seriously. I can't emphasize that enough.
text:So, Oscar is gonna make me die? He hasn't made me die in 12 years, and the doctor is saying, "Oh, I don't know if it's the stress, the finances, the drinking." So, what are we doing saying Oscar could make me die? I've had him for 12 years.	labels:Sal, what, uh, do you understand that what happened 6 years ago or 10 years ago, your asthma is progressively getting worse. You know very well that the puffers, the strength of the medication is getting higher and higher, and there's only so much that can be done with medication alone. You know this.
text:Well, they can keep giving me more medicine and give me the strongest one, and I'll keep Oscar.	labels:Sal, you're almost on the strongest one. And if Oscar is that important to you, then do you put Oscar higher than your baby, than your wife? Like, uh, that makes no sense to me. Do you understand how important this is?
text:I understand, but I don't think you get my situation. I've had this dog for 12 years. So, I'm not just gonna up and get him out of my house when I don't even know if that's the main thing.	labels:Uh, okay, well	episode:True
text:Thank you, my doctor [unintelligible 00:00:05]	labels:What brings you in?
text:Well am having, um-- I've been an ongoing problem with smoking and trying to quit.	labels:So, you'd like to give up those cigarettes?
text:Oh I've been wanting to, for a long long time in years.	labels:Yeah, so then it's, um, right now, uh, tell me a little bit about, um, right now at this point in your life why it's so important to quit.
text:Well I have a 15-year-old daughter and she's highly against it. And, um, health issues, you know, I'm getting-- not getting any younger and I have asthma and I have chronic bronchi-- bronchitis and, um, I'm having a hard time breathing when I exercise and not to mention it's socially unacceptable really.	labels:Like being a leper in a leper colony right now to be a smoker.
text:Actually it's like being a leper in a non-leper colony.	labels:'Cause you can't find a leper colony anymore. So, um, so it-it's really important for you to be a good mum-
text:Right.	labels:-and model for your- for your daughter who's at this age where 15 would be a really common age at which she might decide to smoke.
text:Right and, um, she's been expressing, you know, she walks in and she's like shhh and it's embarrassing for her friends and, um, and in-in turn, it's embarrassing for me.	labels:Okay. So, you-you wanna look good, you know, and she's proud of you I'm sure anyway and then this just would be an added benefit. Yeah.
text:Right right, yeah.	labels:So, and then you mentioned quite a few things about medical problems. So, um, you mentioned, um, asthma, um, acute bronchitis did you say—
text:Oh and emphysema the beginning stages of emphysema.	labels:Oh my goodness. Okay. And so, and that-- yeah, that's very-- that's really scary beginnings of emphysema, I'm sorry to hear that.
text:Thank you.	labels:Well, I mean that's-that's, you know, tell me about when you were diagnosed with that.
text:I really couldn't tell you, um, I remember when my daughter was like five, um, I was-- it was humid out and I have a problem with humidity-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-you know, for breathing, um, and, um, I was trying to stick my head out the window to gasp for air-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and my daughter became so frightened that she went next door to our neighbor and called 911 and it really—	labels:Smart girl.
text:Yeah-Yeah she's very intelligent, yeah. Um, and they came they took me, you know, on this chair type of thing in my robe and my daughter was in sure panic, um, thinking she's was gonna lose me and she's 15 so its been 10 years since then and I still I've tried this Chantix-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-unsuccessfully, uh,--	labels:Tell me a little bit about what happened with the-the Chantix.
text:Well, um, I don't know if it's my lack of willpower but, um, also had ve-very bad side effects from it so.	labels:Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Wh-What sort of if-if you are willing to talk about what kind of side effect—
text:Um, I had nightmares-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-nausea-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-um, stomach problems, and agitation. Yeah.	labels:Oh really. You know, and I've heard that too, Carrie, that people especially you know those are, um, some people seem to have a lot of success but when people do have the adverse side effects they are really pronounced like the ones you just described.
text:Right and it didn't stop me from smoking as well, so that's, uh, [laughs]—	labels:Want the good [crosstalk] no good right? And how long ago was that that you—
text:Um, that was about two to three years ago.	labels:Okay, all right.
text:I tried it a couple of times.	labels:Okay.
text:I would get a, um, a new prescription refilled thinking, "Oh I could try it this time."	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And I had friends that it worked for-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um, and there is a support group that they have that you can go online or call-	labels:Okay.
text:-but of course I didn't do either but-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-um—	labels:It just didn't fit for you to do the online.
text:No. Yeah.	labels:Okay. So, um, but you gave it a good try and it was just not a good fit for you like you-you really listened to what your body told you like nightmares, nausea, I mean those are really bad things.
text:And agitation really-	labels:Oh yeah.
text:-because, um, you know, um, being at my age I'm going through the menopause stage which is part, you know, you'll have that anyways and then having 15-year-old that causes a little bit more stress so you don't need any extra stress, I don't think, as far as I'm concerned.	labels:So, it's already piled I'm thinking up for you, you don't need anything else so you're looking for some relief and not something to make you feel worse.
text:Right, exactly.	labels:Um, have there been some times in the past where you were able to quit smoking completely?
text:Only when I was in the hospital. [chuckles]	labels:Okay.
text:And even then I-I snuck out and had a cigarette, you know.	labels:Okay. So, what's the longest you've ever gone without a cigarette including being in the hospital?
text:Oh God, I would have to say, uh, three days.	labels:Oh, three days. You know, that's a long time and I felt, you know, that's a pretty long time to go without smoking and I would imagine, I think that's pretty good.
text:But it was not really by choice, it was by, um, the situation I was in, I wasn't able to smoke so, yeah.	labels:You were forced to-
text:Right.	labels:-not smoke?
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah.	labels:What did you notice during those three days when you weren't smoking?
text:Um, constant thoughts about smoking.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um, uh, just as, um, a chocoholic craves chocolate-	labels:Mm.
text:-I was craving my cigarette.	labels:You were [unintelligible 00:06:04]
text:Yeah, exactly. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Um, and the first thing when I was able to smoke, I didn't care if I smoke my brand or anybody else's brand, I just wanted that cigarette.	labels:Okay.
text:The nicotine is the addiction.	labels:Right.
text:And-and also the-the psyche thing, you know, with-- I mean, I wake up in the morning, I want a coffee with- I want coffee with a cigarette.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um, if I'm stressed, coffee with a cigarette.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I mean, just cigarette. Um, so it's always, like, it's-it's a duel kind of problem I think-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-you know-	labels:Mm.
text:-I'm finding it to be.	labels:It does, uh, it does a lot of positive things for you.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:And it sounds like it's paired, like a coffee and a cigarette. I mean, you know, probably hard to think about, "How will I have a cup of coffee without a cigarette?"
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:You know, and, um, that's actually, yeah, that's a-- I think it does become very paired with lots of different things. And, um, you might already know this, and so let me know if you do, um, because of the way cigarettes you're describing it and accurately is-- it is really what we call an almost perfect drug in a lot of ways. And-
text:Oh, really?	labels:-it will do whatever you need it to do at any given time. The downside is-is it-it kinda get, it gets in the end with the health.
text:Oh, yeah.	labels:It'll-it'll take a good usually 10 years off your life minimum.
text:As they say, my aunt was like, "Put another nail in your coffin," you know.	labels:Okay. What do you think when she says that to you?
text:More on kind of cocky and I say, "Well, you know, Aunt Kathy, you were my role model, and back in the day, um, I used to envy and watch and think you were so sexy, and all the movies, the old movies."	labels:Glamourous.
text:Yes, yeah. And that's what I associated with at the time and now it's almost, I'm ostracized for it.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So, it's kind of like a double-edged sword.	labels:So, and I would- I would-- it really is because it wasn't like that 20 years ago.
text:Mm.	labels:It wasn't like that for sure 30 years ago.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:So, it's become harder to be a smoker. You light up a cigarette-cigarette and people make assumptions about you.
text:Oh, yeah, and you have to travel like 10 miles-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-in order to have a cigarette. And not say you're in a situation and you only have a 15-minute break-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-you can't even finish your cigarette, um, because you have to be back within a certain amount of time and it takes you, like, let's say seven minutes to get to the place where you can smoke and seven minutes to get back-	labels:Mm.
text:-and a cigarette, um, for me takes five minutes to smoke.	labels:Okay-okay. So—	episode:True
text:Um, I definitely, uh, you know, I-I strive to be physically healthy, but I also have in my life seeing how that impacts me mentally. Um, so I think if I'm- if I'm able to do the things that I wanna do and, um, you know, that I'm feeling good about where I'm at mentally, then that's kind of my end goal, always. Um, yeah, so this body dissatisfaction piece has really just kinda thrown a wrench in that and it's been enough of a challenge that I thought I should seek out someone who can really help me through that piece.	labels:Yeah. Well, I'm so glad that you reached out for help, um, and just know that you're not alone. And-and so, yeah, is that okay if I share a little bit about, um, how I tend to work with clients on that topic?
text:Yes, please.	labels:Yeah. Well, um, first of all, I really am passionate about looking at the whole picture, um, physical health and emotional wellbeing and what I found in working with clients in the past is when, um, we make a focus of weight loss, sometimes, uh, physical health improves, but at the cost of emotional wellbeing.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Um, many people find that when then- when they are restricting their intake or starting some, uh, ac-activity patterns that are really rigorous, that, um, a piece of their mental health suffers because they start to obsess, um, more than they'd like to be about those things. So, my approach with clients is just a more holistic approach. Looking at certainly some behavior changes that you could make to be more physically active, improve your energy levels.
labels:Um, and also look at activities that enhance your mood. We can also take a look at some dietary patterns and see if-if there are ways you could tweak how you're fueling your body throughout the day, but at the same time, sort of letting go of what happens on the scale. Letting go of, um, the final, you know, weight outcome of that, and really focusing instead on healing your relationship with food and also adopting sustainable physical activity patterns. What do you make of all that?	text:So, like, for example, having like a-a set out meal plan, um, you know, where I'm eating certain food groups or certain macronutrients, for example, that wouldn't necessarily follow that same approach.
labels:Yeah, I-I found in the past when working with clients that creating a prescriptive meal plan, um, tends to work for a few days, but then clients usually get really tired of the foods on there. Um, and so instead, I'm really more interested in equipping you to learn how to space your meals and snacks out in a way that makes your body feel energized. Um, and then I can also support you, you know, in looking at the grocery shopping patterns and the meal planning patterns that come alongside all of that. Um, so really teaching you how to do more of your own meal planning, um, to fuel your body in a way that gives you energy, but also in a way where you're really still enjoying food.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Food is meant to be enjoyed, and it's a source of pleasure. So I'd want to help you certainly look for ways to add more fruits and vegetables and-and things that nourish your body, but also look for ways to add pleasure-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-to your meals and snacks.	text:Okay, yeah.
labels:Think about all of that.	text:Well, I think it makes sense, especially like-like you said, to be sustainable. Um, yeah, I definitely wouldn't wanna try something where I'm going to crash and burn for days in.
labels:Yeah.	text:Um, when you talk about activity and you mentioned like really, um, like rigorous activity types, um, like I go to a gym and I enjoy going to the gym when I was active.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Um, would that be kind of against that philosophy too or I guess, can you explain that a bit more?
labels:Yeah, I'm all about trying to help you figure out what types of physical activity bring you the most joy because those are the things that you'll make time for.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:So if-if the gym is what brings you the most joy, then we can work with that, but if you, um, start to think about it and discover there other activities that you're more excited to attend and you're more, um, you're looking at rear-rearranging your schedule too because you really want to be there-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-um, then we can pursue those things. So it's really just about what brings you joy in terms of how you move your body and I'm just here to help you figure that out.	text:Cool, so both with the foods and the activity, we would be working to find things that I like to do-
labels:Yeah.	text:-that I could do for longer periods versus more of like you said, the prescriptive approach.
labels:Exactly. Yeah. So helping you find changes that feel sustainable because they bring you both nourishment health, but also pleasure.	text:Mm-hmm. Yeah, no, I think that-that all sounds good. Um, you know, I still would want to lose weight.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Um, and I know you said weight loss isn't really the goal, so I-
labels:Sure.	text:-I just want to be upfront about that part with me and maybe that changes or maybe it doesn't, but what do you think about that.
labels:Absolutely, I appreciate you sharing that piece with me and you absolutely get to have that desire. And, um, we certainly are bombarded all day long with messages about how a body is supposed to look and so we all, um, certainly have moments of feeling dissatisfied with how our bodies look. And so you're absolutely, um, welcome to hold that and we can have space for that and you can certainly talk about that in these sessions. And I'll check in with you as we're going through the process of behavior change, um, to see how your body confidence is, um, as we talk more.	text:Great. Yeah, now that sounds good.
text:I don't know, and I still don't wanna charge it.	labels:So, it's something you just aren't willing to do?
text:No. I got a lot of stuff to do, I don't need to charge it.	labels:So, it's not really a priority for you right now, to be charging it?
text:No.	labels:Okay. Um, and do you understand then the con-consequences of-of what that would be?
text:I guess so. I don't know. I-I-I honestly don't care what the consequences are.	labels:Okay. Um, would it be okay if I do share you what will happen if you don't charge your battery.
text:Sure. I'll listen.	labels:Um, you will be getting violations for that, and then if you get so many violations, I mean, we'd have to write a warrant for your arrest, which is looking more of, um, detention time.
text:Whatever.	labels:And that's still doesn't seem to bother you.
text:No. I just-- I don't care.	labels:Okay.
text:It really [unintelligible 00:00:58]-- I don't care.	labels:Um, so I know that you, you know, you know the consequences of it, and yet you're sharing with me it's just not a priority for you at this time.
text:Nope.	labels:Okay. You know, that is your choice. I mean, I-I-I can't make those choices for you, it is something that you decide to do. Um, so with that being said then, these will be the consequences. I'll have to read the-the violation for you.
text:Yeah, whatever. I Know you got to do your job, but I don't care.	labels:Okay. Um, any questions about that? Any questions about kind of the next steps from here?
text:I mean, whatever happens happens. I'll deal with it when it happens.	labels:So, your confidence that you'll be able to deal with possibly going back to detention?
text:I mean, I'll just deal with it when it comes.	labels:Okay, and it sounds like you know that it's probably coming then?
text:Yeah, I guess so.	labels:Okay. Well, you know I will be back later. If any questions would arise, we can always talk about that then. Um, otherwise, again, I will have to write a violation, and, um, if you have any questions or need anything from me, please let me know. Um, otherwise, again, I'll be back later today.
text:Okay.	labels:All right.	episode:True
text:Hey.	labels:Hi, I'm Tonny Brownie, I'm a pharmacist here, uh, and I- and I was wanting to spend just a little time with you talking to you about your cholesterol. I found out you're newly diagnosed and your medicine for your cholesterol.
text:Yeah, my doctor talked to me about my cholesterol, that-that's-that's his job.	labels:Okay, certainly glad to hear that your doctor did spend some time with you, um, I-I see myself as somebody who works with your doctor, uh, to help you get the most benefit from your medicine, uh, because you are gonna spend money on it we wanna make sure that you get the most benefit from it. Uh, also sometimes it may be difficult to reach your doctor we're also here, uh, and so we try to work together, wo-would that be okay?
text:Yeah, that'd be okay, yeah, you know, I'm not so certain I'm even gonna take the medicine cause, you know, he mentioned muscle weakness, uh, you know, I-I know I got high cholesterol, uh, and that I'm running the risk of stroke and heart attack down line but yeah, he mentioned muscle weakness and I've been thinking about that and, uh, you know I'm a truck driver and I got a haul the heavy boxes out of the truck on a dolly, and I can't afford that right now. Just that-that muscle weakness, uh, that-that bothers me.	labels:So-so on the one hand, the doctor talked to you about high cholesterol, down the line possibly causing a stroke or heart attack-
text:Oh, yeah.	labels:-and that would be pretty serious. On the other hand, uh, when you found out that this drug might cause muscle weakness, that really alarmed you.
text:Yeah, that's the problem, that's what I face now with my job.	labels:Especially with your job and-
text:Yeah.	labels:-preventing you from doing your livelihood.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Okay, um, would you mind if I talk to you, if-if I- if I gave you a little bit of information about the muscle weakness, and you tell me what you think?
text:That'd be fine.	labels:Okay. The muscle weakness with this drug is very rare, uh, usually doesn't even happen, okay? Uh, if it happens it usually happens within the first month of taking the medicine, you'll notice it in terms of weakness in the arms, uh, or some muscle pain, it's not usual. If this should happen, uh, if you let the doctor or me know right away, we can get you off the medicine, it's completely reversible. It's, the muscle weakness will go away within a couple of days, right.
text:Oh.	labels:Now, you don't wanna let that go on for months at a time, that's when it can become serious.
text:Okay.	labels:But otherwise, again it's rare, and it's completely reversible if you let us know.
text:Well, I guess it doesn't worry me quite as much if it's reversible like that. You know, I was thinking this was gonna be a big-time, but, uh, uh, yeah, I guess, it sounds manageable.	labels:Okay, and, uh, so talk to me a little bit more about what the doctors told you about-about your risks of stroke or heart attack while you're ta- while you have high cholesterol.
text:Oh, he just said that the risks are-are up, I think he called it elevated but, uh, you know, uh, that I'm at a higher risk of having a stroke or a heart attack down the line, uh, you know, that's down the line.	labels:Okay, well how important would it be for you to-to, uh, do whatever you can to reduce your risks of stroke or heart attack down the line?
text:Well, you know, my wife and I wanna retire in about four to five years and we wanna be really active visiting all sorts of places, The Fjords, Norway, things like that so I-I guess having a stroke or a heart attack would really be bad for that so and, you know, we-we-we wanna live our dreams actively.	labels:Yeah, and-and one of the- certainly one of the risks of stroke is paralysis, and if you wanna be active that could be-
text:Whoa.	labels:-really a problem.
text:Yeah, no-no we-we wanna able to be very active.	labels:Okay, well this medicine can really help lower your risk of having a stroke or heart attack so that five years so now when you do retire you can enjoy it without any disability, uh, what are your thoughts about that?
text:Well, uh, I guess that's the-the way to go then cause I-I don't wanna be, you know, crippled by a stroke or a heart attack-	labels:Sure.
text:-so take- taking the medicine sounds like the-the end of the game right now.	labels:Mm-hmm, yeah it would, I-I-I think that would, uh, go a long way toward reducing those risks.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay, um, so if so where we are right now if I understand is you're feeling more comfortable about the concern about muscle weakness?
text:Oh yeah.	labels:Uh, you seem fairly committed to taking the medicine to reduce your risk so that you can enjoy your retirement.
text:Yeah.	labels:Uh, and so at this point, you're gonna get the medication and-
text:And the medicine can get my cholesterol down?	labels:Definitely, can lower your cholesterol to 50%.
text:Wow, okay.	labels:So it's pretty effective.
text:Yeah, I'll take the medicine.	labels:Okay, um, and at some other point we can talk about some other things that you may be able to do including diet, changes in your eating habits, it can lower your cholesterol even more.
text:Okay.	labels:Okay?
text:That'd be fine.	labels:All right, uh, well they have your medication ready, and, uh, if you have any questions let us know.
text:Fair enough, hey thanks.	labels:All right, good to meet you.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay.	episode:True
text:I-I guess, uh, I don't really remember much. I like it was a week ago, so I was kind of drunk too.	labels:Okay. Behavior like this could get you suspended, doesn't that concern you?
text:Hmm. I mean, not really. I'm gonna be 21 in a couple of months. Um, once I turn 21, the cops can't give me a minor and I mean, I'm not a heavy drinker, like-like my friends or anything. I don't get wasted at all. And, uh, I just need to be careful. I just won't get caught. I'm just trying to find, like, a normal college student.	labels:What were you thinking when you got into your car after having six beers, you could have caused an accident and killed somebody.
text:Whatever, I-I didn't though. I called my roommates for a ride. He was sleepy. So I had to get home somehow. And this isn't even my fault. I give him rides all the time, but I didn't do anything.	labels:You need to take responsibility for your actions. If you keep partying like this, your problems will only get worse. You're likely to face costly legal citations, poor grades, health problems. Getting kicked out of school and disappointing your parents. You don't want that to happen, do you?
text:No-no. Like I said, this isn't even my fault. Like, are we done here? I have class in 15 minutes.	labels:Your behavior is not what Minnesota State University expects of its students. If you wanna be a student here, you'll need to show that you're able to follow our rules. Do you think you can do that, otherwise, you'll be suspended?
text:Look, I really like going on the [unintelligible 00:02:29] and I get what you're saying. You, you're making some really good points and I'll think about them. Okay?	labels:Okay. Well, your sanction is you'll be placed on university disciplinary probation and you'll have to attend an alcohol education seminar that'll cost you $150. Also, disciplinary action is progressive and cumulative, meaning that any further violations will result in suspension for one semester or longer.
text:Hmm, pretty good.	labels:Would you like to-
text:Check it, yeah.	labels:-check this out? What do you think?
text:Oh, that was fixed really nice.	labels:Yeah.
text:You got rid of that bad-	labels:Yeah.
text:-discoloration that was there.	labels:Yeah. No.
text:I like that.	labels:It went well. Good. Excellent. I did notice quite a lot of staining, actually. I'm wondering what are your thoughts about what might be related to that.
text:Mm. Well, the usual suspects, smoking, wine, coffee-	labels:Yeah.
text:-all of the above.	labels:Any thoughts on considering quitting smoking at this time?
text:Yeah, I've thought about it. I'm just-- It's not my cup-- I-I-I hear it from everybody, and, uh, I've tried- I've tried before, didn't work. I get it all the time.	labels:Okay. And it's like here I am one more person, the next- the next doctor who's saying, "You need to quit smoking, David."
text:Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [unintelligible 00:01:13] hmm.	labels:Mm, and I'm sorry, that's not how I mean to come across at all.
text:Yeah, I-I-I know I'm not an idiot and people know that smokers are, you know, "How can you smoke today?" [coughs] It's just not that easy to, uh, quit.	labels:Mm-hmm, and if it was as easy as the doctor is saying or your partner-
text:Yeah.	labels:-saying-
text:Uh, who wouldn't be?	labels:-you have to quit.
text:You'd have to be a real fool not to do it-	labels:Yeah.
text:-if you [unintelligible 00:01:34] was gonna make it like that.	labels:Yeah.
text:I-I just hear it every day.	labels:Yeah. And what's been your past experience with smoking? Tell me-- Can you tell me a little bit about kind of how the role it plays in your life, how long you've smoked?
text:I've smoked for 40 years, since I was 14-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and quit a couple of times, off and on in my 20s, but, you know, it's been consistent. And I can't see myself changing now.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:No matter what kinda talk I get or what they come up with.	labels:It sounds like almost you've tried a lot of things that are out there and it's not something that you're—
text:Not gonna worked for me.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:No.	labels:Yeah.
text:I know cold turkey is probably the only thing that's ever gonna do it to anybody that's done it. Mysel- My group, it's been cold turkey-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and then they fight it, but [sighs] it's my choice-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and I don't like lectures about it.	labels:Yeah. And it really is your choice. You're absolutely right-
text:Yeah.	labels:-that nobody has the right to tell you what to do. Um, can I ask? If you were to-- Uh, if there was to be a situation where you decided, "I must quit," what-what would that situation be?
text:Hard to tell 'cause I already had open-heart surgery. That didn't do it.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Prostate cancer, that didn't do it.	labels:Right.
text:I don't know. I really don't know. I just don't really want it.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I just-	labels:So, this is something that you-you-
text:-have to-	labels:-pretty much see yourself doing for-
text:Yeah, a while, quite a while. Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Okay. Well, I really appreciate you being willing to even talk about it. And I get that right now, this is not something that you wanna pursue. Would it be okay if I brought it up in our next visit? 'Cause I-I know that you've said you don't want a lecture, but on the other hand, I am- I am concerned.
text:Okay, yeah. I could go for that. I-I, uh, I'm always open to some-- you know, to listen. Yeah.	labels:As long as I don't talk too much?
text:Yeah. [laughs]	labels:Okay. [chuckles]
text:[unintelligible 00:03:34] options. I had some-- I had my surgeon just go like, "You're- you're--" like, "Why do I even keep you as a patient?"	labels:Hmm.
text:He's good, though. [laughs]	labels:[chuckles] You're glad to keep him as a doctor?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Well, and, David, honestly, wherever you're at, we'll work with it.
text:Okay.	labels:Um, and so thanks for- thanks for taking a couple of minutes and talking about smoking.
text:Thanks, doc.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, my doctor referred me. He said I had to come because I've- I've been a little irresponsible with this pregnancy. Yeah.	labels:Okay. He's thinking you were a little irresponsible.
text:Yeah. Um, he said that I was drinking too much with it. Um, I-I haven't been a lot, but he said it was still maybe, um, would screw things up.	labels:And you're feeling kind of concerned about that.
text:Yeah. Yeah. Like I don't- I don't want to screw anything up with this baby, but, um, yeah, I'm just- I'm scared I already did.	labels:Okay. So, you're concerned about the consequences, and you really care about your baby, and you want to give your baby the best start you can.
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah.	labels:And you're wondering a little bit about this time that we're going to spend together.
text:Yeah. He didn't really tell me what to expect. He just said, "Go- go see her as well."	labels:So here you are today and, um, you're sharing that you have been drinking alcohol throughout your pregnancy.
text:Yeah. Um, I didn't find out I was pregnant until probably two-ish months in-	labels:Okay.
text:-and I had already been drinking then. Um, I've been really trying not to, but, you know, weekends come around, and, um, all my friends are kind of partying and stuff, and it's been hard to, like, break that habit.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, there's this external pressure coming from the people you care about to sort of stay in the scene.
text:A little bit. I think if I- if I talk to them, it would be fine, but it's-it's weird, right? Like I'm the only one of my friends that's, like, taking this step and having a kid, and they don't really know how to handle that.	labels:Kind of feels like You're between two worlds. In one world, you're preparing to be a mother and bring a baby into this world, and this other world is the world that you've been in for a while where you're kind of having a good time and-
text:Yeah.	labels:-drinking and your friends are-
text:Yeah, like, I'm- I'm still, like, I'm only in my 20s, and-and for everyone else, it's like, "Okay, it's party time," and now I kind of have to, like, break out of that.	labels:Okay. So, this party-time world's- are you feeling like this is something you want to move out of and move into that mom world? Or does it feel like I want to hang out there still too?
text:There's, yeah, there's part of me that still wants to live that out because I'm not going to have another chance, like once this kid comes, it's-it's going to be over. I know I'm gonna- I know I'm going to have to change.	labels:So, for you, you're feeling like once the baby comes and actually in your arms, then things are going to change, but right now, while you're pregnant, you're thinking, "I can kind of hang out in both worlds a little bit," but part of you may be thinking maybe that's not the case. It's time to go to the mom world maybe.
text:Yeah. Probably. And I'm also feeling like it's too late. I already screwed it up.	labels:Okay. So, you've got a lot of concerns about what's happened to- up until this point, as far as your drinking. What do you know about, um, drinking alcohol throughout pregnancy?
text:Well, I know, like, they say not to, but I thought because my friends didn't really care, I thought, "Okay. Like maybe-maybe it doesn't matter. Maybe it's just what they tell you." Just like drinking, in general, is bad.	labels:So, you were thinking because your-your friends weren't pressuring you to stop drinking, that-that it must be okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:And then there's this other part of you that's- was thinking maybe it's not okay.
text:Yeah, like, I should probably have trusted my gut.	labels:So, your gut is telling you what? Tell me about that.
text:It's telling me that what I'm doing is wrong and it's probably hurting my kid and that- that I'm gonna really regret that once I actually get my kid.	labels:And you really wanna do what's best for your babe. And kind of wondering, um, how to move forward from here, is that where you wanna, you know, kind of focus in on, or what are your thoughts about giving up drinking altogether?
text:Um, I'm definitely it's not-- I think I could probably do it. It's just- it-it comes hard when you're, like, in that moment. You're around your friends and they're drinking and you don't wanna be- you don't wanna be the mom at that moment. You wanna be yourself. You wanna be who you were before.	labels:So, you kind of have this identity, dual identity going on. I wanna be that person, yet, that person-
text:And so many people, when they have kids, they just vanish from their friends. And I don't wanna be that person. I don't wanna be that person that just has a kid and they're completely-completely different.	labels:Mm. So, embraces this life of the picket fence and the, you know, the little house and having the baby in this-
text:Yeah, suburbs. Yeah.	labels:So, you don't wanna be that- that- that woman that's just sort of living in this house with the baby carriage, and at the same time, that world's kind of saying it's behind you.
text:Yeah, I-I guess. Like, I don't wanna- I don't wanna lose my friends because of this. And I don't wanna put pressure on them to change because they're, I mean, they're good people. They're just—	labels:You care about them.
text:Yeah.	labels:It's just the scene that they're-they're still in because their life maybe hasn't taken that change that your life has made. And so now, you're here and you're not sure. You want the baby, but you're not sure about the suburbs and the picket fence thing. You're not sure—
text:I don’t want that.	labels:You don't want that.
text:No.	labels:You want this baby.
text:Yeah.	labels:And you wanna be, um, take care of your baby as the baby's growing.
text:Like, I wanna- I wanna be responsible for this thing.	labels:You don't wanna let your baby down.
text:No.	labels:And at the same time, it's hard to let go of the past, but on the other hand, you're thinking, "I don't have a choice. I've got to look this way." Is that kind of what it feels like?
text:I guess so. I feel like I've already made a choice and already made some bad choices with this.	labels:Nina, I'm wondering, what's your hope for the future? When you think about where you are today, um, what do you hope for when you look ahead?
text:Well, I-I kept the kid because I wanted-- It was almost like that push, that sign for me to, like, move forward and become like an adult because it's scary, right? Like I-I still feel like a teenager sometimes. And having that push to be a real person is really-- It's a lot of pressure and I-I want to raise this kid well. I don't wanna- I don't wanna let my kid down. I don't wanna, you know, I don't wanna regret choosing to have this kid because I think it's the right time, but I don't wanna- I don't wanna make mistakes that make me realize maybe I'm not ready for this 'cause sometimes it feels like I'm not ready for this.	labels:You put your heart there that the baby is really- it was almost kind of like a sign for you that was saying, "This baby is giving you a kind of a new chance at life, or giving you a plan B," and you guys both get to decide what plan B is gonna look like.
text:Yeah, I just guess it's easier said than done though. Like, it's, like, great, I can make all these changes and I can be a completely new person, but it's, like, at the end of the day, I'm still just who I am.	labels:While this baby's growing in you and you think of all the opportunities that could come out of this, there's a part of you that says, "I'm still that same girl that was drinking and partying," and-and maybe not living the life you wanted to live.
text:Yeah. And I'm just- you know, you can't just one day flick a switch and become a new person.	labels:While this baby feels like this is your second chance, you're wondering, "Do I deserve that second chance?" And then this other part of you that says, "Why not? It's here and I wanna go for it."
text:Yeah, I guess that voice is just a little more stifled by the other one.	labels:Mm-hmm. You got a lot of people around you that are kind of pulling it down, and it's kind of taking you back to the old life. And the baby is a constant reminder that there’s this new life ahead.
text:Yeah, it's gonna be very different when it actually comes.	labels:When you think about, you know, embracing this new life, and taking that different path, turning away from path A and moving into path B, how confident are you that you can take path B and be successful in raising this baby, and letting go with the drinking and the life that you were in-in path A?
text:I think I'm gonna have to be successful. I don't really- I don't have any other choice. Like I have to- I have to take that path.	labels:Mm-hmm. Tell me more about that, what makes you say, "I have to take that path"? What makes you feel like you need that?
text:Because I need to for my kid. It's- it's gonna be all screwed up if I don't.	labels:This part of you that says, "I don't have an option to-to-to make this life better," it's wondering, "Do I have the confidence to be able to make that life a reality?" What do you think you need to increase your confidence that you can do this?
text:I don't know, like, maybe- maybe actually talking to my friends and saying like- or maybe them actually being able to see this kid and go, "Of course, of course, your- your choice makes sense. You--" Maybe it would, you know, give them a wake-up call too if They actually, like, see it.	labels:So you're thinking that, um, once your friends see you with the baby in your arms that they too will see that there's a different path for them too?
text:Or at least they'll feel less pressure to be who they want me to be.	labels:Mm, kind of feel like you're pulled between two worlds there.
text:A little bit.	labels:It's not easy to be in that world and also having that constant reminder that the baby is coming and this baby is saying, "I want this better life," and you want to give the baby a better life too. Who can support you, do you think when-when you look around who's in your circle right now, who do you think can support you in moving towards path B?
text:Definitely my parents, um, and I probably need to, uh, go and meet some other-other people who are maybe, you know, having kids too so that I can see, like how it's done 'cause like, I only have a younger brother who's like not-not even close to that. So I don't really have anyone in my life that I know that's had kids recently. So I-I would like to meet other, you know, young moms out there who, you know, are kind of struggling with the same stuff I am.	labels:And your parents are a support for you and support you from giving up the drinking, the alcohol use, that's something that they would support-
text:I don't think they realize, uh, that I'm doing it or how much I'm doing it.	labels:Okay.
text:And I know that if they found out, they would be really pissed.	labels:That would be a concern for them as well as for you now.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Is that something that, um, maybe you and I could meet again about-and talk about having those conversations with-with the family, maybe having conversations about, you know, the folks, your-your friends that are currently in the lifestyle that you were involved with, um, and then sort of what it would look like to go down path B, is that something that you would be open to meeting with me about again?
text:I think so, yeah, like the telling my parents and [unintelligible 00:13:45] this to my parents is probably the scariest thing.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And having to talk to those friends, like right now I don't want to do that. It's- it puts them in a weird place.	labels:Kind of feels like you're climbing Mt. Everest.
text:Yeah.	labels:And you don't have equipment.
text:It feels like I have to lec- I don't wanna have to lecture them and I don't want it to be like a lecture.	labels:You're concerned that they're gonna kind of treat you like a child.
text:My parents or my friends?	labels:Oh, oh, you're talking about your friends.
text:Yeah, lecture my-- Yeah.	labels:You're wondering if they're gonna kind of be like children and you're gonna be like the parent saying-
text:Yeah, and I don't wanna be like that.	labels:You just wanna be like peers talking.
text:Yeah.	labels:And you want them to support you.
text:I wanna stay friends with them. I don't want- I don't want them to just-	labels:You don't wanna lose your support group, yeah. You just wanna them to support you in being healthy, while helping them, raising the babe, and so we're just taking path B. You don't wanna lose them, just maybe the lifestyle it sounds like.
text:Yeah, like if there's a- if there's a balance between maybe not the paths, but the worlds, if there's a balance between that-	labels:Mm. You kind of wanna have the best of both worlds.
text:Yeah.	labels:I want the friends and the relationship that I get from my friends, and at the same time, I don't want the party scene that goes with that.
text:Yeah, like I-I know I just can't cut off my friends altogether.	labels:Well, Nina, you know yourself best, and you know, you know, you know what your world looks like and what those, you know, like, you know the support that your friends give you and the support that you get from your family, you know that. And I-I really just wanna support you in being able to make those choices and have those conversations, and I wanna do whatever I can to support you with that. Um, and I'm just wondering if maybe we can kind of pick this up, um, in a next visit, but before we go there, I'm just wondering, is there some steps that you would be willing to kind of take or consider, uh, with-with regards to your drinking?
text:Um yeah, like I'm so close anyways, that I know I need to now. Um, and I just also, like, have I completely screwed this up, like, is it already too late?	labels:You're concerned about the health of your baby. I just would love to share with you, Nina, that every day without alcohol is a good day for your baby, and you know, starting today to have zero alcohol is a great start, and I'm wondering if that's the sort of something you'd be open to as no more alcohol at this point.
text:Mm-hmm, I have to do.	labels:Okay, sounds like this is really important to you. You want to make this happen.
text:Yeah.	labels:Is there anything that I can support you with before we wrap up as far as giving up alcohol today?
text:I don't think so. I think just knowing that it's not too late already is enough kick in the pants to get started.	labels:You kind of got a reality check today.
text:A little bit.	labels:You did really well talking with me today, and I thank you so much for just sharing your heart.	episode:True
text:Hi, Dawn. Nice to meet you.	labels:Nice to meet you, too. Thanks for coming in today.
text:Thanks for having me.	labels:Yeah. Tell me a little bit about yourself.
text:So I am, um, 28. And I moved out to Arizona about six months ago. Um, I really enjoy spending time with my family and hanging out with friends whenever I can. Work keeps me pretty busy. Um, But I'm really, um, looking to kind of make some changes to my diet and physical activity. I'm not really happy with where my weight's at right now, and, uh, so I thought it'd be good to come and talk with you about some of that stuff.	labels:Yeah, you're feeling a little bit dissatisfied with your health patterns?
text:Yeah. Um, I'm really starting to notice how I feel more sluggish and just not-- My mood is shifted a lot too, which at first, I thought was because it's getting colder outside, um, but I do also think it maybe has some relation to my activity, or lack thereof, and also kind of the foods that I'm eating.	labels:Okay, so you're feeling some low energy and you know, in the past, when you've been more active and eating differently, you've had more energy?
text:Right. Yeah. Especially during times when I'm more active is when I noticed the biggest cha-change in energy and mood.	labels:Yeah. Tell me more about that, those previous times that you've been active.
text:Yeah. Um, well, I played sports in college, so that kept me pretty busy, and that was really fun, um, and I just think back now to, as much that I would cram into a 24 -hour period, and like, wonder how I did that, but I think that part of it was because I was so active physically, um, I just had way more energy throughout the day, mentally and physically to, um, you know, go to school full-time and-and still socialize with friends and do all that stuff. Um, so when I think back to like, probably like the peak of my life of when I felt my best physically, mentally it was that time.	labels:You had energy, and you were like the Energizer Bunny, just keep going and going and going.
text:Yeah, yeah, exactly. And now it's not so much the same. Um, like when I get home from work, I'm pretty exhausted, uh, it takes a lot for me to want to be physically active when I've spent all day staring at a computer and thinking and working. And so, um, yeah, that's probably been my biggest, uh, issue is like when work ends, going home and not really doing anything. Um, just trying to like unwind by watching Netflix or something else, right?	labels:So your days are just as full now that you're working and a career person, um, and your energy level isn't what it used to be. What-- Do you have any ideas about why that might have shifted?
text:Um, well, I think part of it is that when I was in college, it wasn't really an option to go, like, I had to go to practice or I had to do those things because that was, in a sense, my job that was paying for school, um, and now there's not that same commitment to other people or to scholarship money. So that definitely has shifted, um, but I-I do feel like a-an urgency to go it just doesn't seem that like the step that's missing is for me to actually go to a gym or somewhere to be more active. Like, I think I want to it's just the doing it that seems to not happen.	labels:Right. So in the past, it wasn't up to you whether you had the choice to go be physically active. Now it is up to you, and-and you're looking back at the last few years and saying, I wanna do things differently.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:I want to be more physically active than I've been.
text:Yeah, yeah, I think so. Um, that's not to say like, I wanna go run a marathon but I do think that it would help me a lot in terms of just having a better outlook on life, um, and better energy to- if I were to pick up some type of activity.	labels:Great. And you've noticed a mood enhancement effect of exercise.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Tell me more about that. What do you notice specifically about your mood on the days you're physically active?
text:Just, I'm-I'm just happier and more upbeat and I think that even my outlook is more positive. So like, if I'm sitting in traffic, and I haven't been physically active, I'll probably grumble about it but if I'm sitting in traffic, and I have been, it's like, I just have a different outlook on things and I already feel like I've gotten something accomplished that day. So it just kind of like helps with that ripple effect into my day of like getting more things done.	labels:Yeah, you feel more accomplished and-and you feel less irritated by the small stuff.
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah, exactly.	labels:Great. Well, let me see if I've got this all. You came to Arizona six months ago, you're trying to figure out new rhythms and patterns for yourself. You're looking back at the past few years, and in college, you were real active because you were an athlete, and now it's more up to you about making that choice of physical activity, and you're discovering that, um, not being active has affected your energy level and your mood, and that's something you're looking for more of, both of those things, energy and-and a mood booster.
text:Yeah. And then also to, um, like I mentioned, I'm not totally happy with my weight, um, and so hoping too that that would have some impact there and-and maybe help me, um, if my activity kind of gets resolved or improves, then my nutrition also, maybe would go along with it and get better.	labels:Yeah. Tell me more about your weight concerns. When did you start feeling dissatisfied with your body?
text:Uh, probably about three, four months ago. Um, yeah, just my clothes started fitting tighter, which wasn't as comfortable, and, um, yeah, just not really super happy with my appearance, which has never really been an issue, um, in my life up until now. I've usually been pretty okay with that, and then in the last three months, I just feel, um, like I've had a lot more of a negative outlook on it.	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay, so it sounds like a sort of a vicious cycle and-and maybe the lacking physical activity has made you feel less confident in yourself. I wonder if that's also a piece of this puzzle since you mentioned that's been a big difference from what was happening in the past.
text:Yeah, I think- I think the activity piece and then also to like, the foods that I'm eating, I don't think are that great. So that also kind of does the same thing, I think, to my appearance or the way that I viewed myself.	labels:Okay. So you had a pretty strong self-confidence, pretty strong body image all the way up until a few months ago and, um, you're hoping to kind of get back to that place where you feel good about yourself.
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah.	labels:Great.	episode:True
text:Yes. Morning.	labels:Hello, there.
text:Hello.	labels:My name's Dr. Betty. I'm one of the new GPs in the practice. First of all, what would you like me to call you?
text:Well, you can call me Barbara. That'll be fine. Thank you.	labels:Okay, that's fine. Okay. So, Barbara, I'm seeing you today, um, but I think it's usually Dr. Brown that sees you, is that right?
text:Yes, Dr. Brown is my doctor.	labels:Okay. What is it that's brought you to see me today?
text:Well, I've come about my tummy problem. I've got terrible trouble with my stomach and, uh, Dr. Brown just doesn't seem to be able to get to the bottom of it. And I thought perhaps, uh, I'd come and see you to see if you could help.	labels:All right. Okay. Can you tell me a bit more about your tummy problems?
text:Um, well, I-I have this terrible discomfort nearly all the time. Um, it very often feels bloated. I, um, uh, I swing between being constipated and having diarrhea. Um, I have sort of cramping feelings sometimes, and other times it stabs. It's a real stabbing feeling. Um, I often have the urge to go to the toilet and, um, and I pass very smelly wind.	labels:All right. So, quite a few symptoms there-
text:Mm.	labels:- and some of them sound-
text:Yes.	labels:- quite troublesome to you.
text:Yes.	labels:Okay. And how long has this been going on?
text:Well, I, uh, I've traced it back to a holiday I had in Egypt about four years ago. I had, um, a horrible bout of sickness and diarrhea, and, uh, and I don't think my stomach's ever been really right since then.	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay. Okay. So you think it began about four years ago after this holiday?
text:Yes. Yes.	labels:Okay. And what's- what sorts of treatments have you tried for-for this before?
text:Well, uh, Dr. Brown gave me some muscle relaxants at the beginning.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um, but I've been to the health shop and-and they've been really helpful. They've given me lots of different, um, tablets and medicines-	labels:Right.
text:- for different things. Um, no, oh, and Immodium.	labels:Right.
text:I have Immodium in my handbag all the time, just in case. Yeah.	labels:Right. So, these different tablets that you've got from the-
text:Hmm.	labels:- the herbal shop-
text:Hmm.	labels:- how are you taking them?
text:Oh, well, different tablets, you know, I don't have the same problem every day-	labels:Right.
text:- so I'll take some tablets for certain, uh, symptoms, and-	labels:Right.
text:- other tablets for other things.	labels:So, am I- am I right in thinking you perhaps decide on a day-to-day basis-
text:Hmm.	labels:- what you're gonna take-
text:Hmm.	labels:- depending on what your stomach's doing?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. Okay. And what about tests? Have you had any tests for these problems?
text:Yes, uh, I had, uh, in the early days, I had a gastros-gas-- What are they called?	labels:A gastroscopy.
text:That's it. Yes.	labels:You got the tube down-down from the top?
text:Yes. Yeah.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, and at the same time I had a barium enema.	labels:Right.
text:That was very uncomfortable.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, but, um, no, I've tried-- Well, you-- I don't think he's tried enough tests because he said after that, that they didn't find anything-	labels:Right.
text:-and he-he's-he's just not sent me for anymore. That's it now-	labels:Right.
text:- as far as he's concerned. Sent me back to the doctor.	labels:Right. It sounds as though you're-you're not happy with that.
text:Well, you know, I think that actually, the NHS are running out of money, aren't they? And he's-	labels:Right.
text:- decided that I've had enough tests.	labels:Right.
text:And, um, you know, if you go on the Internet-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- there's loads of tests that he could have sent me for.	labels:Right.
text:Um, if I had a bit more money, I'd go private.	labels:Right.
text:I just don't think he's got to the bottom of it.	labels:Right. So you feel as though actually, enough hasn't been done in the way of-of tests?
text:No, he's not. There's loads more he could do. I'm sure.	labels:Right. Okay. It sounds like you-you've had these problems now for about four years.
text:Mm.	labels:You've-you've got a lot of various symptoms in your stomach.
text:Mm.	labels:Um, you've tried a lot of tablets. Some prescribed, some herbal remedies-
text:Mm.	labels:- and you've had some investigations, but you're not entirely happy that-that you haven't been investigated thoroughly enough.
text:Yeah.	labels:Is that- is that about-
text:I'd say so, yes.	labels:- if I got the story right.
text:Yes.	labels:Okay. And can I ask you, Barbara, how-how is all of this affecting you day-to-day? How's-how's it affecting your life?
text:Uh, well, it's had quite-quite a big impact. Um, I mean, the first thing, the biggest thing, I suppose, is that I-I went from being full-time to part-time at work.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I just couldn't sit all day comfortably.	labels:Right.
text:Um, and so I went part-time, but in the end, I, uh, about a year ago, I stopped work altogether.	labels:Right. Right.
text:Um, I miss that.	labels:Right.
text:I miss the girls. We used to, uh, we used to go out at least once a week.	labels:Right.
text:To the pictures or for a drink. That's one thing.	labels:Sounds as though that's something you quite enjoyed.
text:Yeah, so I-- Yes. Yes, we used to have a laugh.	labels:Right. Okay.
text:Um, I used to go to Swing and Shape. I used to go to an exercise class-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- that was, um, I miss the exercise, actually. That was, um, once a week, but you know, the thing was I wasn't comfortable, never felt quite right doing all this exercise. I was always worried I was gonna be taken short or-- So I stopped that.	labels:Right.
text:Um, then-- Well, my husband and I used to go out for meals.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:That's another thing we don't do anymore now.	labels:Right.
text:Um, mm. Yeah, it's quite a few things, really.	labels:Yeah, it does- it does sound as though over the last few years your life has really changed-
text:Mm.	labels:- quite a lot because of these symptoms.
text:Yes.	labels:It sounds- it sounds like you're doing the review of the things that you used to do.
text:Mm.	labels:Right.
text:Mm.	labels:So, what is it you'd spend your average day doing now?
text:Well, I potter around the house-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- um, I spend perhaps a little bit too much time watching. I've got a bit hooked on daytime television, I have to say.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um, they draw you in, don't they?	labels:They certainly do.
text:Um, I read a bit-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- the old magazines, but, uh, generally, I'm at home.	labels:Right.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. Okay. And have there been any times over the last four years that you've noticed any significant changes in your symptoms? For example, have there been any times when things have been better for you?
text:Um, well, last year, um, my son got married-	labels:Right.
text:- and I-I have to say I was worried that, um, that I wouldn't be able to cope with it.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:That I-I wouldn't be feeling well enough, but surprisingly enough, um, I was in good form, and I think it was about three weeks in the summer, getting ready for it-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- and the whole hoo-ha of the wedding.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:But I was in good- in really good form for that. Yeah.	labels:Right.
text:That was a good time.	labels:Right. And how were you tummy symptoms then?
text:I hardly noticed them.	labels:Right. Okay.
text:Yeah, it, uh, it seemed to, uh, clear up.	labels:Right. Right.
text:Which was good.	labels:Right. That's interesting.
text:Mm.	labels:And are there any times when your-your tummy symptoms bother you more? Seem particularly bad?
text:Um, well, it's- I'm-I'm having a bit of a bad patch at the moment.	labels:Right.
text:It's particularly, um, uncomfortable. Um, I have to say I do notice it when my husband's away. He-	labels:Right.
text:- he travels with his job, and he-	labels:Right.
text:- can be away a couple of times a month.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:Um, and that's not-- It-it's very often not good then, I have to say.	labels:Right. So you notice it's a bit worse when your husband's not around? Okay.
text:Mm. Maybe I'm thinking about it a bit more, I don't know, when he's not there.	labels:Right. I know you've been seeing Dr. Brown about this for the last few years.
text:Mm.	labels:What is it that he's said that he thinks might be wrong with you?
text:Well, he's-he thinks it's all in my head.	labels:Right.
text:You know, he's- he says it's stress.	labels:Right. Okay.
text:Mm.	labels:And what do you think?
text:Well, I mean, it can't all be in my head. I get too much physical pain-	labels:Right.
text:- for it to be in my head. I mean, it's real. It's-it's real pain.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um—	labels:And have you had any thoughts yourself about what you think might be causing it?
text:Well, I mean, I-I did think that perhaps it was an infection that hadn't cleared up-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- in the early stages, but, um, I think, um, I-I mean, sometimes I think it's IBS. A friend of mines has got that and it sounds similar, and then-	labels:Right.
text:- other times I'll think, "I wonder if it's an ulcer."	labels:Right.
text:Um, on a really bad day, I start to think it might be cancer.	labels:Right.
text:Um, my mother-in-law- my mother-in-law died of cancer last year and she had a, um, a growth that-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- the-the doctor didn't investigate.	labels:Right.
text:But by the time they'd found it, it was the size of a football-	labels:Oh, dear.
text:- and it was- it was too late to operate then.	labels:Right. Right.
text:So, you know, when I go to bed at night now, um, I just feel to make sure there's nothing different going on.	labels:Right.
text:And, uh, yeah, I worry about that.	labels:So you're- you-you're kind of prodding, having a feel at night?
text:Oh, yes.	labels:To see if you can feel anything?
text:Yes.	labels:Right.
text:I just want to make sure there's nothing changing down there, you know?	labels:Right. Okay.
text:Mm.	labels:Okay. So just to-to make sure that I've got the-the story straight, you've-you've seen Dr. Brown for a couple of years.
text:Mm.	labels:You've-you've tried a variety of medications-
text:Mm.	labels:- some prescribed, some-
text:Mm.	labels:- from the-the herbal shop. None of them really made a great deal of difference. You've had some investigations-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:- but you perhaps feel you've not had enough investigations. And at times, you worry that this could be something quite serious like a-
text:Mm.	labels:- a cancer. Is that-- Have I got the-
text:Yes.	labels:- story right?
text:Yes. Yeah.	labels:Okay.
text:I'd say so.	labels:Okay. Barbara, what was it that you were hoping that I'd do for you today?
text:Well, I thought, you know, you're a new doctor here-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- and you've just finished your medical training. I wondered whether, you know, with new eyes and a new way of looking at-at the problem-	labels:Right.
text:- um, you-you probably know about different tests, new tests, that my doctor doesn't know about, you know, new developments.	labels:Right.
text:So perhaps you could send me for some different tests.	labels:Right. Right. So you were hoping that I'd send you for more tests?
text:Mm.	labels:Okay.
text:Well, I think there's-there's got to be something that a test might-	labels:Right.
text:- might reveal.	labels:Right. Okay. Well, I think, Barbara, having-having heard your story, and heard about the symptoms, I'm not sure that actually sending you for more tests at this point would be the most useful thing that we could do for you. And the reason for that is because you've-you've had some of the main investigations in the last couple of years, and-and they've not shown anything. And your symptoms haven't really changed that much. So it's very unlikely that if we were to send you for more tests now that-that they'd show anything different than what we already know. So a bit-- I think it would be a waste of time for you to go for more tests.
text:So-so like, do you think it's all in my head then? You're gonna be like Dr. Brown. You think I'm imagining all of this?	labels:Uh, no. I think that you clearly have pain, and clearly you have lots of physical symptoms, and they're clearly getting in the way of-
text:Mm.	labels:-your life and causing you a lot-
text:Mm.	labels:-of disability.
text:Mm.	labels:I guess- I guess the way I think about these things is that they're not necessarily either all in the mind or all in the body.
text:Mm.	labels:Sometimes these things can go together. Uh, I guess I'm thinking about how you told me that last year, when your son got married, uh, and you were very busy-
text:Mm.	labels:- and quite happy, that somehow your symptoms seemed less.
text:Mm.	labels:And, uh, when your husband's away, which is something you don't like very much, sometimes, somehow, your symptoms then will seem greater. So, I guess what I'm wondering, Barbara, is if there might be some kind of a link with you between how you're feeling in your mind, and what's going on in your life, and-and how much your symptoms trouble you. Do you think that's a possibility?
text:Well, I can't see that my mind can be causing this amount of pain.	labels:Mm. I'm not saying that the pain's in your mind. Um, I guess what I'm saying is that sometimes the way that we feel, and the way that our lives are going, can impact how we notice our symptoms. Given that we've tried medication for you, and we've tried investigations, and we've drawn a blank really, with those, none of those have really helped you-
text:No.	labels:- I guess I'm wondering whether now it would be a good idea to try a different approach to your problems.
text:What-what sort of approach?	labels:Well, I guess, thinking a little bit about those other areas of your life, um, uh, I'm thinking about the fact that over the last four years, your life's really changed. It seems to have really shrunk down.
text:Mm.	labels:And it sounds as though you're not doing lots of the things that you used to do. That you-
text:No.	labels:- used to get pleasure out of. Is that right?
text:Well, I just can't do them.	labels:Yeah.
text:I can't- I can't do them anymore.	labels:Yeah. And I guess I wonder-- Uh, it sounds as though you've-you've dropped doing those things because you felt you couldn't do them, but I wonder if, in a funny way, what's happened is the fact that you're not doing those pleasurable things now, has kind of fed into you feeling-
text:Mm.	labels:- unhappy with the way that-that your life is at the moment. And-and I guess I wonder whether that can then make your symptoms worse for you.
text:Oh, I don't know.	labels:Mm.
text:I don't know.	labels:Well, I guess what I'd be wondering is whether one of the approaches we need to be using now is thinking about what you do with your life, and what you do with your day, and maybe trying to bring back some of those pleasurable things, you know, even if it's just meeting up-
text:Mm.	labels:- with your-your female friends once a week, and whether actually doing those sorts of things might generally-
text:Mm.	labels:- improve your quality of life. I'm also thinking about the tablets that you're taking.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:And the fact that you-you seem to be taking quite a lot of them, and I'm wondering whether it's worth, though, sitting and looking at them and-and maybe trying to rationalize them a little bit, and really decide which are helping you, which are doing nothing, and which may actually be making some of your symptoms worse, I guess.
text:Hmm. Yeah.	labels:What would you think about trying that slightly different approach for say-say two or three months, just to see whether or not it makes any difference?
text:Well, two or three months is a long time if there is something going on. I mean, that's what happened to my mother-in-law, you know.	labels:Right.
text:They-they left her and-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- didn't spot it and—	labels:Well, I guess if we- if we did decide to-to work together like this-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:- in this new approach, I'd be seeing you regularly. We can keep an eye on your symptoms, and if they change, then we can investigate as appropriate. But if they stay the same, then, you know, we can be-
text:Mm.	labels:- pretty clear that there's nothing new happening that-that we're missing.
text:Mm.	labels:How would that sound?
text:So, uh, what are you saying then? That I should come back and see you?	labels:I think that would be a good idea. I think we've only just begun to talk about it-
text:Mm.	labels:- and I think perhaps you need to have a bit of time to think about it and then perhaps come back. Perhaps if you're booked in for a double slot next week, and that would give us a good chunk of time to think about this new approach.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:And perhaps if you could also bring your-your tablets in or-or make a list of them, we can look at what you're taking and perhaps go from there. How would that sound, Barbara?
text:Okay. Well, uh, to make an appointment for next week.	labels:Yeah.
text:And come and see you again-	labels:Yes.
text:- and talk about it a bit more?	labels:Yes. I think so.
text:Okay.	labels:I think that would be a good- a good start.
text:All right. And I'll make a list of the tablets that I'm taking.	labels:Yeah.
text:I won't bring all the bottles down.	labels:Okay. All right.
text:Okay. All right. I'll do that.	labels:So, shall I see you again next week?
text:I'll make an appointment for next week. Yes.	labels:Okay. All right. Thank you, Barbara.
text:Okay. Thank you.	labels:Bye-bye.	episode:True
text:Kia ora.	labels:Good. Are you okay today?
text:Yeah, yeah fine.	labels:All right. So where we left last time, you were going away to think about a few things and to, um, develop some sort of plan of action. How'd it go? What were you up to?
text:Actually, it's been pretty good. I, um, I talked to my mom, which, uh-	labels:Right.
text:-which is a big deal. And, uh, she was excellent. Um, I knew she would be. Um, and, uh, I've made an appointment for the, uh, for Stopping Violence and [unintelligible 00:16:15]	labels:Good to know, excellent.
text:Um, I've cut down on the drink. I haven't stopped drinking, but, uh-- Yeah, so, uh, it's okay.	labels:Things are looking pretty good.
text:Yeah.	labels:So you've rung your mom, had a chat to her.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Any other whānau members? You talked about your brothers and sisters last time.
text:Uh, I didn't speak to my brothers and sisters this time, I just spoke to my mom, but, uh, she, uh, she suggested that I go and stay with my, uh, auntie and my uncle. Uh—	labels:Here in Christchurch?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay.
text:I'm not sure.	labels:No?
text:I'm not sure, I'm thinking about it.	labels:What are you not sure about?
text:Well, I'm not sure if I want to live with my auntie and uncle. [chuckles] Um, I think, yeah, I'll probably need to. I think probably living with, uh, with my mate in his flat is probably not that helpful.	labels:Okay. Just sort of interested, when you rang your mom and, um, told her what's happening, how difficult was it to talk about the issue of violence and being violent towards your partner?
text:It was terrible. It was really hard. Uh, I think probably the hardest person to talk to about it, my mom. My, um, my old man, um-- Yeah, it was hard.	labels:We-we talked about, uh, last time that this is hard stuff and that, um, we are prepared to kind of do the hard yard. So you've gone away, you've talked to your folks, put it out there about your issue of violence? Um, I'm thinking about, uh, with-with Tristan and the whole alcohol issue there. So it sounds like to me if you've- you've started to put quite a bit of stuff in place.
text:I try.	labels:Yeah. What does it tell me about you as a man, as a father, as someone who wants to get moving?
text:Well, I hope it tells you that, um, that I'm a good bloke. That I'm a good dad. That I really- that I'm really serious. I am really serious.	labels:Grand. You talked a little bit about, uh, you'd really like to get back with Kristie?
text:Yeah.	labels:And-and-and your kids and developing that whānau. Have you had an opportunity to get in touch with her and—
text:Uh, yeah, I talked to her about it. We talked a little bit. Um, and she's not completely convinced.	labels:Right.
text:Um, but we'll see how it goes.	labels:Okay. So what do you think you're gonna need to do to show her and others, uh, to convince them that you are serious?
text:I need to, um, I need to see all these things that I've started to put into action, I need to see them through to the end.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Well. I need to- I need to, uh, to show her that she can trust me. That I'm serious about it.	labels:Yeah.	episode:True
text:Yeah, um, last week I met with my nurse practitioner, and I ge-I guess she's worried with how much I'm smoking and drinking right now. I mean, I-I did agree I would work on the smoking and try to cut back on that. But, as far as the drinking, I-I don't really think I drink that much.	labels:So, you've decided you wanna cut back on your smoking a little bit, but, you're not really concerned about your drinking.
text:Right, I mean, I don't drink that much and, honestly, it-it's just a good way to relax.	labels:It's a nice sort of form of stress relief.
text:Yeah, exactly. You know, it's kind of like that me time at the end of the day.	labels:Sort of escape from your hectic schedule.
text:Yeah. You know, I have a two-year-old son, and then, I work full-time. And, I also started going back to school. So, you know, just trying to juggle all that stuff. You know, it's tiring, and so, you know, at the end of the day, I just- I wanna relax and enjoy myself.	labels:So, you're working, and then, on top of that, juggling being a single mom and going to school?
text:Yeah, and for work, you know, I'm a server. So, I'm on my feet all day, you know, and it's-it's really tiring.	labels:It's pretty exhausting work.
text:Yeah, you know, it's hard trying to please customers all day. And then, at the same time, I'm-I'm worrying, am I making enough money to support my son, you know?	labels:So, you're not only doing really tiring work and going to school, but you're also worrying about your finances.
text:Yeah, and then, you know, with going back to school, you know, I have to figure out how I'm going to pay for everything. So, you know, i-it's just a lot right now.	labels:Yeah, it does. It sounds like a lot that you're trying to deal with, and it makes sense that you feel like you need some kind of break or reward.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:So, tell me a little bit more about your drinking. Tell me a little bit about how much you're drinking, and, um, the pattern, and what raised concern.
text:Well, that's the thing. I-I don't really understand what raised concern. I mean, I don't drink that much, you know. I've-I've gone up to maybe two drinks a day max, you know.	labels:So, you're drinking, perhaps, two drinks a day. Um, and I'm wondering, what have you heard about the recommendations for drinking levels?
text:Not much.	labels:Okay, will you be interested in hearing about those recommendations?
text:Sure.	labels:Okay. Well, so, the recommendation for women is to have no more than three drinks a day, and no more than seven drinks over the course of a week. Yeah, um, and, really, the reason for those recommendations is to just reduce the risk that people have trouble with accidents, or chronic diseases. Like certain types of cancers, or high blood pressure, and then also psychological problems. I don't know what you think about all that?
text:I don't know, i-it just surprises me because, I mean, two drinks a day, that-that doesn't seem like a problem or risky, you know. And, I have family members who drink a lot more than that per day, and, it's not a problem for them. So, i-it just surprises me.	labels:It just doesn't seem that abnormal to you, especially when you compare it with your family.
text:No. And then, I don't know, I-I'm just getting kind of annoyed, honestly, because, you know, I did agree I would try to work on my smoking, you know. But, with this whole drinking thing, it's like everything that I enjoy, you know, is being taken away from me right now. And so, if I give up drinking, like, what am I going to have to enjoy myself, you know.	labels:Yeah, you really feel like you need that reward.
text:Yeah, yeah.	labels:And then it also sounds like, um, your drinking has perhaps increased a little bit over time?
text:Yeah, I mean, I guess it has. Probably just with being so stressed out every day, you know. I mean, I'm in my second semester of school right now, and so, adding that to everything, uh, it's a lot. And, you know, I'm trying to figure out child carry. Um, normally, my mom will watch my son, but, lately, she can't always. And so, I'm always kind of worrying like, will she be able to, you know. So, i-it's just stressful.	labels:Yeah, and so it sounds like you've noticed that the more stressed you're feeling, the more you're drinking.
text:Yeah, I-I guess that's right.	labels:So, let me summarize a little bit what you've told me. It sounds like you have a pretty hectic, stressful life, and you really feel like you need some kind of-
text:Uh-huh.	labels:-reward or stress relief. Um, and then, on the other hand, you've noticed, um, that your drinking has increased a little bit over time. And also that the more stressed you're fe- you feel, the more you're inclined to drink.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, I'm wondering, have you noticed any problems from your drinking?
text:No. I guess, you know, the one- the one thing I can think of is, I mean, there will be evenings when I just kind of want to get my son to bed a little earlier, just so that I can have that alone time to unwind, you know, maybe-maybe smoke, have a couple drinks. Um, but, I do feel guilty about that sometimes, because, I should enjoy spending time with my son, but, instead, you know, I'm just wanting to be by myself and relax, you know. So—	labels:So, you've noticed that it's starting to call to you a little bit in the evenings.
text:Yeah.	labels:And it's perhaps taking you away from things that are more important to you?
text:Yeah.	labels:And it doesn't feel good?
text:No.	labels:Yeah. And so, it sounds like there's a bit of a dilemma there, because-- And I guess we should be clear, it's not the occasional drink that's an issue. Um, it's-it's really the quantity of drinking, and-and whether your drinking is escalating and interfering with things that are, perhaps, more important.
text:Yeah.	labels:And you've perhaps never seen it in that light before.
text:No. And, i-it's just, it's really hard to take in right now. I mean, yeah. I-I've never thought about it like this. And, so, you know, I-I do feel kind of worried.	labels:I-it seems like it-it would be quite a hard pattern to change.
text:Yeah. I mean, i-it's part of my routine right now, and, you know, I-I don't want to sacrifice something I enjoy, but, you know, I'm trying really hard, you know, to be a good mom. I'm-I'm trying to, you know, go-go back to school. I'm trying to work. So, I don't know how I can do all of that if I don't have a way to enjoy myself or relax, you know?	labels:So, it seems like it would be really difficult to change because it's something that's really important to you right now.
text:Yeah.	labels:But on the other hand, it does sound like there are things that you- that you value that you don't want the drinking to interfere with.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, I guess I'm wondering if you've given any thought to other ways in which you could cope with stress without relying on the drinking so much.
text:Well, you know, if there was some way that I could relieve some of my stress, I think I would feel better, and, you know, maybe at night, I wouldn't feel like I had to unwind in the same way.	labels:So, if you could somehow tackle some of these stressful issues, um, that could make a difference, and, what-what would that be, for example?
text:Um, you know, probably my biggest problem is just childcare. You know, my mom normally watches my son, but she's been kind of backing out lately. And so, I'm worrying, am I going to have to call into work today, am-am I going to have to miss class? You know, so, you know, worrying about that really stresses me out, you know.	labels:So, having more reliable childcare could make a big difference.
text:Yeah, definitely.	labels:And it sounds like your mom has been an option in the past, but perhaps not so much anymore.
text:Yeah. I mean, she watches him so much. I think she's just probably getting stressed out too. And, I feel bad because, you know, it's not her son, so i-it shouldn't be her problem, but, I need something that I can rely on better.	labels:So, one thing that could make a big difference is if you could figure out some sort of more reliable, affordable childcare, and that would help you not want to drink as much.
text:Yeah.	labels:Anything else?
text:Well, I mean, most of my problems always go back to money. You know, i-if I had more money, I could afford daycare, I could work less hours, you know? So, yeah. It's-it's normally related to money.	labels:Yeah. It-it sounds like, um, you know, money could make a big difference, and you are working full time and trying to go to school to address that in the long run. Um, but on the other hand, you know, it sounds like you have some other ideas of cope- of how you might cope with stress better. Um, so, I guess I'm-I'm wondering, given our conversation so far, kind of where you are with everything.
labels:Um, we started off talking about how your drinking has sort of drifted into a risky area, and it would be advisable to cut back. Um, but it sounds like you feel like that's fairly important to you and not something you necessarily want to do. But on the other hand, we've talked about ways in which that perhaps could be made a bit easier, but I'm not sure if you're ready to tackle that or pursue that right now. I'm just kind of wondering where you are.	text:Yeah. I mean, I'm ready to consider changing my drinking, but, as far as actually doing it, I-I don't know. I mean, I have a lot of problems that I'm trying to work out right now.
labels:So, um, it would perhaps be helpful if you could narrow it down to just one thing, and what would that be?	text:Childcare, probably.
labels:Okay. Yeah. It sounds like from everything you're saying, that keeps coming up as one of the main issues. Um, so there may be some resources I can point you towards, but I'm- guess I'm wondering, have you looked into alternatives, more affordable, reliable childcare?	text:Not really. I mean, I just normally see if my mom can watch my son, so, you know, I haven't really looked around.
labels:Okay. Well, one thing you could consider is talking to one of our social workers, they sort of specialize in helping people who have a lot on their plate identifying resources that they may need, uh, things you haven't thought of or aren't aware of. So, I don't know, would you be interested in doing something like that?	text:Yeah, definitely.
labels:Okay. Great. Well, I can definitely set you up with that, and you can-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-um, try to tackle, um, your childcare issue, um, with some assistance. Is there anything else you'd like to do, um, for example, would you be interested in talking with me again, um, just as things progress?	text:Yeah, I-I think I would. I mean, it's-it's been nice to just talk about everything that's going on.
labels:Yeah. So, these are not problems that are going to go away in a week. It's going to take some time to resolve. Okay, great. So, um, it sounds like we have a couple of things, uh, to pursue.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Anything-anything else?	text:Mm-mm
labels:Would you be interested in perhaps thinking about setting a goal with respect to your drinking?	text:Well, I mean, I could at least try to going back to one drink a night instead of two.
labels:Okay. Try to cut back a bit and see how that goes.	text:Yeah. I mean, I-I don't know how it's going to go, especially with trying to cut back on smoking already, but, I mean, I can try.
labels:Okay. So, you can give it a go and, I think doing managing, you might just learn a little bit about how easy or difficult it's going to be, and-and also what it's like to cope with stress in other ways.	text:Yeah.
labels:Okay. So, it sounds like we have two avenues to pursue, anything else?	text:I don't think so.
labels:Okay. Well, that sounds good. So, why don't we meet again in a couple of weeks and you kind of update me on how cutting back on your drinking has gone, and also, what it was like when you met with a social worker? Sound good?	text:Yeah.
labels:Okay, great. I look forward to talking next time.	text:Okay. Thanks.	episode:True
text:Every time I go-- Excuse me. -to any doctor, you know, you need to quit smoking and—	labels:Mm-hmm. Finger comes out.
text:Uh-huh and I kind of go, let's move on, you know because I've heard the lecture. Um, and I really don't put much credence into what they say. I did have- I did have a neighbor who was smoked for many, many years and, um, she had the Oxygen-- Oxygen tank that she would have to sleep at night with the oxygen on and even that didn't deter me from that smoking. I don't really know. It's like, um, a power greater than myself. This is controlling me like this, you know, the angels on this side, the devil's on the other.	labels:Mm-hmm. And there was a war going on?
text:Mm-hmm, yeah. And common sense somewhere in the middle.	labels:Yeah. Well, and your daughter.
text:Right.	labels:And the social stigma, because you don't want your daughter to think of you like that, whatever that- that as a smoker, you know. You know there're people who make the assumption and it- it sounds like those are more important to you than the medical things, and who cares why it's important?
text:Right.	labels:It doesn't matter. So what- what ideas do you have about what might be most helpful for you in quitting smoking?
text:Well, you know, I was thinking along the lines of meditation. Um, you know, I- I do practice yoga, um, not consistently, but on and off. Um, and when I was in the hospital, I had to do that breathing apparatus and they didn't want to let me go now, like, you know- you know what, I'm not doing that it's already blurry then to this thing, to see the level, um, some pretty obstinate about it and yet I want to do it, you know?	labels:So that was helpful for you that it's a, um, I can't remember. I know what you're trying to get a little ball.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:It shows you your lung capacity.
text:Right. Which I barely have any.	labels:But it might be helpful if you- if you quit or it's, you know, it did if you were gonna decrease or whatever, to see how much better you're doing with the ball going up and your lung capacity increasing, is it?
text:Right- right.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, I don't even know where you can get those. I think—
text:Oh, I already have one.	labels:Oh, you have one?
text:Yeah, [laughs].	labels:Oh, okay- okay.
text:It came home with me.	labels:Oh, did you?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. All right.
text:It's stuff that I learnt in class.	labels:It's so interesting because there's immediate feedback. I mean, that's immediate feedback. Um, so we're- we're talking about quitting or here quitting completely. What thoughts do you have? You tried the Chan- the Chantix, meditation, you like that so, um, I can run some ideas that some other clients have used [crosstalk]-
text:That'd be great, yeah, please.	labels:So, um, since you like meditation so much, it's highly likely that you'd be a great candidate for hypnotherapy.
text:That's- that's something I'd be really interested in.	labels:Yeah, okay.
text:Yeah. I mean, I- I, um, I've always liked therapy itself, and I- I've heard, I don't know if it's accurate, but if you have the willingness that is you're ease- more easily hypnotized, I don't know is it true?	labels:Yes, it is true. Yeah. It is. I mean, people don't come walking through the door who are not interested in it, you know? So, um, yeah, so that's-- So you'd be interested in something like that and, um, what- what other ideas have you thought about that would work for you?
text:Well, I mean exercise, but really, you know, I have the mindset, you know, like, okay, tomorrow I'm going to get up and I'm going to do this, but I really am not a follow-through type of person with this.	labels:Okay. Okay.
text:Because you know I've never been really athletic. I mean, so it's kind of like, I know that when you substitute something for something else, other than chocolate, which is my best friend too, [laughs].	labels:Might become a better friend when you quit.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, because I know you mentioned you tried the Chantix. Um, what have you tried? Uh, Zyban or Wellbutrin?
text:You know, I've heard of Welbutrin.	labels:Okay.
text:My girlfriend quit smoking. She quit drinking. She quit doing everything with this Wellbutrin. Now I- I- I am on some medications, like some, like I think that's an antidepressant.	labels:Yes, it is.
text:Okay. Um, I'd be open to that and then I'm not sure-- I'm not familiar with the other thing that you had suggested. Um, I don't know what that is.	labels:It's the same thing. It's Wellbutrin, and when they found out by accident through what we call serendipity that you know what, Viagra. [laughs] That when- when people were on Wellbutrin that they tended to decrease and stop smoking, and, um, there were a couple of different reasons for that. Number one, people tend to get depressed when they quit smoking, because it puts you in such a state of deprivation and, um also-- well, so Wellbutrin really is a good antidepressant for them.
labels:The other thing is its a slight stimulatory effect and when people go off nicotine which is a stimulant the-they tend to get pretty tired overheard-- you know it's the opposite of however the nicotine makes them feel. And the Wellbutrin kind of with stimul-- you know stimulatory enough. [crosstalk] [unintelligible 00:05:56] And I-- the last I've read, and I've not kept real current about it, but I'm wondering about the-- what your thoughts are if any about the-- any of the nicotine replacements like the gum patch, the inhaler.	text:Um, you know I'd be-- I've heard a little bit about them, but I mean I do know some people, but they're not exactly reliable, um, as far as you know really having a desire and sticking to it that they smoke on the patch and-and then it causes this you know extreme, you know? Like you're getting double the nicotine or whatever so it's almost like they're getting a buzz from it you know so that's my fear and the cost of the patch because it's not covered you know through your, um, your- your insurance and the Nicorette same thing it's very expensive you know. And I'm not really a gum sure but here I am because—
labels:Chewing gum.	text:[laughs] but I mean I'd be interested I wish they'd make it more affordable for people or you know they haven't covered by insurance because you know the risk of it you know that the premiums for insurance- insurance for people who smoke are so high you would think that they would have like, um, what do they call that? Preventive. Um, I wish I never would have started and I'm proud of my daughter you know because I started smoking a little bit earlier than her age, and I'm proud that she is at this point not smoking this manifestation she might pick it up but it's- it's like-
labels:That strong spirit of you got instilled with her.	text:Yeah-yeah, maybe I'm the best example of why she doesn't want to [laughs] you know
labels:Could be?	text:Whatever you know and her friends. I think a lot of her friend's parents don't smoke and I'm constantly running like outside to smoke and-and-
labels:It is becoming a pain in the butt	text:It is. It really is. It's a monkey on my back
labels:Mm-hmm	text:And um for me smoking is like a calming effect, you know. And some people it's a stimulant you know and then for me, it's like, I look forward to relaxing on my couch after a long day and then watching my you know news or whatever the heck I'm watching or reading and having my cigarette, um, I'll tell you-
labels:Like it's a little treat.	text:Right. Exactly or you know like I'll do some work, and then I'm like okay you know as my ex-husband says Union break and it's a cigarette break. [laughs]
labels:I've never heard of Union break. I love it how you said. I love it.	text:Yeah. Absolutely it's not my quote but he actually he would mind.
labels:I love it. Union break.	text:Yeah
labels:It's great	text:Yeah, you know how those union workers have to have you know, Union break.
labels:Union break. Yeah. le-leverage, and you know so it's something else you might know about nicotine is, um is that actually depending on how you smoke it, it can- it can be stimulant when you want it to be a stimulant if you smoke it in short, shallow puffs and then it can be a depressant like after a meal and you take longer inhalations, and it really tends to act on your central nervous system as a depressant. So it kind of does whatever you want at any given moment and yet there is this price that you pay	text:Yeah, financially too, which is [inaudible 00:09:27]
labels:Financially. Right, getting back to the finances and you know, you know, you know I'm thinking your daughter what a pain but it's become the finances the emphysema. I'm really-- because I would think that in 10 years, how much are you smoking now?	text:Well, uh	episode:True
labels:Nice.	text:Um, and—
labels:Since the-- since you used, uh-- since the last time you used meth, right?	text:Right.
labels:Okay.	text:Right. It's been three months, and I've been doing pretty well.
labels:Good.	text:Um, and I met a couple new friends.
labels:Nice.	text:So—
labels:So-so, uh, have-- last time we talked, you know, you were kind of cutting the-the ex-boyfriend out. This is because he was your dealer, so--	text:Right.
labels:And how is that going for you?	text:Right. It's been good. I haven't answered the phone when he's called-
labels:Okay.	text:-and a couple of my other friends have tried to call me as well, and I haven't answered the phone. Um, so it's been good for me to just reach out and like, meet a couple of new people, um, in the neigh-neighborhood that I'm living in.
labels:So it sounds like you've made some good changes. The change in your environment, and some of your behaviors, and, uh, and these new friends.	text:Yeah, the new friends, and I've been using the, you know, the breathing exercises you taught me, when I get-- start to feel a little stressed out, and I've been- I've been using those and it helps me. I go for a walk and do my breathing exercises, and it calms me down and kind of gets me through that time.
text:Yes.	labels:How are you feeling today?
text:I feel great actually.	labels:Yeah? Good.
text:Yeah.	labels:Good.
text:I feel good.	labels:And so you did your clarifications, value clarifications-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and what are your top five?
text:Yes. It was a good, uh, experience for me. It was different. It was different than usual. There were several things that were different, and, uh, the number one value that I put was self-respect. And I-I don't even know if self-respect has ever been in my top five let alone my number one.	labels:Really?
text:Yeah. And, um—	labels:Do you have any idea why that is?
text:I do have an idea, I think, why that is. Um, I think that there's been a few things that have happened recently and something that really came to my awareness, when I visited with my family, is that I have consistently through my whole life, probably, put other people first. And I have consistently, uh, almost not even considered myself in the equation. It was, uh, kind of sad in a way, at the time that I realized it. Uh, I didn't realize how severe it actually was, but I was kind of glad that I realized it because I feel like it's never too late to change-	labels:True.
text:-and I feel like I can- I can, uh, respect and value myself just as much as I have other people. I know that's important. And I feel like when I do that, I'm a better person for other people as well.	labels:Mm-hmm. By not putting yourself on the back burner so much?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:Because I get stressed, I get resentful, I get overwhelmed and, uh, out of- out of alignment, I guess, out of sorts.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And I can't be the best- the best me possible.	labels:For someone else?
text:Yeah.	labels:For your family?
text:For myself or for someone else, either way, yeah.	labels:You think it is so much of a fact that you put yourself on the back burner that you were neglecting yourself, or that you were putting others so much before you that you just didn't even think about yourself?
text:I-it's almost-- Like, I think that some people might not even think that I put that first, but in my mind and my emotions, I was carrying concern about what other people think, and I was letting that concern dictate my actions. Instead of letting my own values dictate my actions, I was letting what I thought other people wanted me to do to dictate my actions.	labels:Wow.
text:And that's something that I had done for so long, literally since I was a child, that I didn't even know I was doing it.	labels:There's so much of your-- Part of your paradigm?
text:Yes, yes.	labels:So, do you think sometimes you weren't even aware
text:Not aware at all. Completely unaware. Totally unaware, yeah. And so to me, I feel like it's a celebration. I used to, uh, moan and complain about my childhood and about all the things that I didn't get to have, and all the cruel, mean things that people said and did, and I felt-- I feel like I had this aha moment where I realized that I could be my own parent, and I could give myself the things that weren't given to me, now. I can give myself a voice. I can give myself an opinion. I can live like that, if I want to. Nobody's stopping me from it, only me.	labels:Yeah.
labels:The very first time that you can remember?	text:I would say so, yeah. I don't know if I've ever said that in front of people and not felt the least twinge of guilt for it. [chuckles]
labels:That's not a selfish thing.	text:No-
labels:Right.	text:-it's not, it's really not.
labels:Cool, that's great.	text:Yeah.
labels:Yeah. And so you felt you came about this change, and-and-and how does it make you feel?	text:Well, it makes me feel jubilant. It makes me feel joyful. It makes me feel hopeful. It makes me feel like I count, like I matter. Uh, it makes me feel like I'm going to be able to do what I want to do with more joy and more passion, and less dread and a sense of responsibility, because one of the things that kind of happened along the way I really didn't notice, is that, um-- Like, let's say for example I like being a teacher or I like being a teacher or I like being a counselor to a certain degree but because of all the shoulds and all of the sense of responsibility and all of the caring about what people think, I started to lose joy doing things I actually enjoy doing.
labels:Because you're- felt so obligated.	text:Yes, because it turned into an obligation instead of just really really a sense of like you know passion you know. My passion is gone completely. I don't know I'm just happy to, I feel like I got back in touch with myself. It's like I was like lost for a while and now I'm like back again, yes, now I remember why I wanted to do this or like why this is important to me because it is actually one of my values to be and help, but it just has to be, uh, balanced.
labels:Yeah, is that on your top five also	text:No, but um, the other ones I have on there, uh are, number two, inner harmony. For the same reason, like I feel like I need to harmonious within myself before I can be harmonious with other people.
labels:You get peace with yourself?	text:Yes, and then I put family happiness.
labels:That's very good.	text:Yes, because I think that when I'm at peace with myself, uh, that automatically contributes to my family happiness. When I am unhappy with myself, I bring my unhappiness to my family.
labels:Sure.	text:Uh, yeah, when I don't have self-respect and I am only giving my family a say on who I am and what I should do, I'm angry at them, I quarrel them.
labels:You feel resentful.	text:I resent them, I really do, when I am in the mode. But when I just say, "Hey, I'm a person of this family and I deserve this much time and energy and attention and just more than anybody else," I don't care, you do what I do I do what I do life goes on [chuckles].
labels:Right.	text:And then I have health and achievement, and to me, this one on achievement says a sense of accomplishment and to me that kind of goes along with what we were talking about earlier like I think I can show up and be a teacher and be a counselor in many different, uh, capacities. I could be your- I could be- I could be a teacher and I could be a really bad teacher. I could still be a teacher you know, I could show up an I could just do a really poor job and I could go home and I probably could keep my job for a while, it wouldn't be the first time right?
labels:Right.	text:But I don't feel good about that.
labels:You don't feel fulfilled.	text:No.
labels:Like you've done anything helpful.	text:Right, right.
labels:It's because you showed up and you gave out	text:It's not enough for me to just show up and get my paycheck. That doesn't, I don't feel fulfilled so it-it, that's the way I see it going together with the helping. It's not just about helping to like look good or to exhaust myself or do what I think I should do but to really give something needy, something substantive, something real.
labels:Meaningful.	text:Yeah, meaningful, even if it's-it's small.
labels:Sometimes it's the small things that really count, too.	text:Yeah.
labels:So all of these things put together feel like right now at this point in life, that it is really healthy change for you, like where you are right now.	text:Yeah. Yeah.
labels:That's great and is there anything else on the list you felt like it was coming close to some of the other top five that you had or something similar?	text:Well, one of the things about this list that kind of surprised me is almost every time I have done this list, uh, creativity and freedom have been really high up there. And it didn't even make it to my top five. It was in my top 12.
labels:Uh-uh.	text:But I think the conclusion that I came to is that I can be more creative and have more freedom if I have inner peace and self-respect. Part of what- part of what binds me, part of what takes my freedom away is when I just explain all over the place and I don't give any attention to myself. Part of what steals my creativity is when I'm- my mind is reeling around in stress and I am not- I can't even hear myself. I can't even hear myself think. How can you be creative if you can't even hear yourself?
labels:All the chattering.	text:Yeah, exactly, to me the creativity comes from the silence, comes from the quiet. It's literally-- I can just be in silence for even if for a few moments. It's amazing the ideas that come to me so quickly and so easily that would take me hours to figure out if I'm stressing.
labels:Thank you so much for sharing.	text:Thank you, thank you for listening.	episode:True
labels:Right, so you've hit a plateau in your weight and despite all the things that you're trying to do to increase your activity, it doesn't seem to be working on the scale?	text:No, and I don't know what I'm doing wrong because I keep trying the exercise but nothing's happening.
labels:Right. So you feel like you're spinning your wheels, you're doing more exercising and it's not showing results on the scale?	text:Yes.
labels:And you're not feeling so good about that?	text:No, and even when I'm coming home, like, I'll go to the gym and then I'm noticing nothing is happening and I'll come home and I try to talk to my mama about it or even my father, and no one even cares about it. Like no one wants to support in it anyway.
labels:Uh, so you feel like you're doing this all alone?	text:Yes.
labels:At home or you think that they'll be supportive but they're not giving- they're not giving you what you need?	text:No, and specifically my father, he just-- Not only does he not want to support me with it but at the same time, he feels like I need to be gaining my weight back.
labels:Oh, okay.	text:So I—
labels:Tell me about that.	text:It's as though by me losing weight, it's like I'm somehow disconnecting from my family, and he thinks that I'm trying to form myself to fit into like this perfect American picture and I just want to be healthy, I just want to have a good body and he doesn't think of it that way.	episode:True
text:Um, well, you know, I have a lot of anxiety, and so there's this test that I have to take. It's a big test and I've kind of been putting it off just 'cause I get very anxious. I don't trust in myself that I'm going to do good at it. Um, and so that's something that's like always on my mind, it's been on my mind for many years and it's like, I gotta just do it. Um, but I always stop myself from doing that because of the anxiety. And I just want to, I don't want to feel that way.	labels:Yeah. This anxiety is this obstacle for you and it sounds like it, then you're just not feeling confident that you could do it and do it successfully to this exam.
text:Yeah.	labels:And so, it's easier for you to just not do it.
text:Exactly. So, I just avoid it and put it off.	labels:Yeah. So, on a scale from 1 to 10, 1 being not confident at all, 10 being very confident. How confident are you that you feel you can manage your anxiety in regards to taking this exam?
text:Um, maybe like a four or five.	labels:Okay. So, four or five. How combat, like, not like a two or three.
text:I mean, because I-I have it set up after like so many years, so I still have a ton of anxiety about it, but I think I'm like kind of making it, maybe that first step. And so that's why I would rate it as like a four or five because I'm making that first step, but it's still scary for me.	labels:Yeah. Yeah, and you also mentioned that you've actually made the appointment that you have to take this exam.
text:Yeah.	labels:And before you've been putting it off.
text:Yes. And I already kind of put it off after s-scheduling it too. So, um, now I'm actually enjoying that because I-I already like changed date and everything. So now it's actually coming.	labels:Okay. So, you've made this appointment before in the past and the anxiety has kind of taken over where you've rescheduled it.
text:Yes.	labels:And this time, it seems like it's a little bit different this time. How come this time you feel like you might not reschedule this time around?
text:Um, well I think it's this kind of long time coming. I just need to do it and then I can figure out, if I don't pass, I have to wait three more months to do it. And then I just study for the next three months. And if I do, then I can have that weight lifted off my shoulders cause it's been all a lot of weight on me and I think about it every single day. And I'm just sick of thinking about it.	labels:So that's really encouraging you thinking about how good you'll feel afterwards once it's done and taken.
text:Yeah. But then I do worry, you know, that negative talk that, you know, when you have anxiety. So then I worry about if I don't pass it, you know, like people are going to ask me how I did and if I don't pass it I'm gonna have to tell them, it's embarrassing for me. Um, so that makes me really anxious.	labels:Yeah. You kind of want to avoid that. Yeah. Have those other feelings that could come up and if you don't have.
text:Right.	labels:I'd love to hear from you. When was the time in the past that you were feeling anxious about something and you actually did it and it turned out well?
labels:Yeah.	text:Um, it made me feel good.
labels:So, in that experience, it really built up your self-confidence and it almost not only changed the way you saw yourself, but maybe how other people saw you and you really, you liked that feeling.	text:Yeah, I did.
labels:Yeah. And that must've been really brave for you to do something that seems really daunting at first, yet you were really successful at it.	text:Yeah.
labels:Um, how do you think you could relate that to what you're dealing with now?	text:I mean, I think again, like all that anxiety, the same anxiety I had with that I have with those tests. And so, um, but that if I pass this test, if I could have that same feeling that I had, like when I did a good job like the-- you know, I mean, I would like to have that feeling again.
labels:Mm-hmm	text:You know.
labels:So for you to create opportunities to create those moments that you can have that feeling again	text:Right
labels:And you just mentioned too, you feel really proud of yourself.	text:Yeah.
labels:So to end our conversation, how do you think you couldn't move? You originally said, you were at four or five, what would have to happen to get you to like a seven, to feel more confident?	text:Well, considering this test is coming on the way in a few days, um, I think, for me and just like practicing and just really seeing how I do and if I do well, then I think my confidence might go up a little bit.
labels:Mm-hmm	text:And maybe just having that faith in myself that, you know, that I can do it instead of just thinking that I can't.
labels:So that positive self-talk could really go a long way for you?	text:Yeah. Mm-hmm.
labels:So to summarize, it sounds like you are still feeling kind of anxious about this test coming up, you've rescheduled it, um, over the past couple years. Yet, this time around, you seem more confident to just get it done. And you've even mentioned times in the past where you were feeling anxious and you were successful about it and that you felt proud about yourself. And you liked the way it means, you see yourself and how others saw you, and it seems like y-you're ready to finish this exam and-and remind yourself that you can be successful?	text:Yeah.
labels:Okay. Well, thank you, Tanya.	text:Thank you.
text:Okay.	labels:So why don't you start by telling me a little bit about yourself?
text:Uh, well, my name is Andrea, as you know, I'm, uh, in the marching band. I play the tenor sax.	labels:Oh.
text:Yeah. I'm involved in music. So I'm also in the jazz band, the wind ensemble, and um, yeah, that's about—	labels:Okay.
text:I'm an IB student.	labels:Okay. How long ago did you start playing saxophone?
text:Well, saxophone. I started about four years ago, but I've been involved in music for about 10 years now, so.	labels:Wow. That's a long time. What other instruments?
text:I started off on the violin first.	labels:No kidding.
text:So I played that for like six years, once a clarinet, dabbled here and there with different things. And then I found the one- the one for me.	labels:That's awesome. And you play tenor sax?
text:Yeah, the tenor sax.	labels:Wow. And how long have you been in marching band?
text:Marching band since freshman year. So like three years.	labels:Okay. Couple of years. Great. And how do you like Marching Band?
text:It's fun. It's a- it's a lot of work, long summers taught, but it's fun.	labels:What are your favorite parts about it?
text:Oh, I really like the-the group setting.	labels:Oh, okay.
text:You know, getting to work with my other classmates and things like that. And putting on this entire show-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:-it's very exciting, very exhilarating once you're in competition.	labels:Okay.
text:It's very cool.	labels:Cool. And do you have a lot of friends who are in band with you or-
text:Yeah.	labels:-friends outside of band or?
text:I have, um, you know, I have two-two separate groups. I have my friends from class and then my friends from bra-- from band.	labels:Okay.
text:So.	labels:Great. And then, um, tell me a little bit about your family?
text:Oh, well I have one brother he's older than me, about nine years older than me.	labels:Oh, wow.
text:And, uh, my parents and my dog. [laughs]	labels:Okay. What kind of dog do you have?
text:He's a golden retriever.	labels:Oh, nice.
text:Charlie.	labels:Charlie.
text:He's a big boy. Yeah.	labels:Oh, cute. Have you had him a long time?
text:Yeah. He's about eight years old now.	labels:Oh gosh. Yeah. Okay. Very cool. And what are your plans for after high school?
text:Uh, well, I'm planning on going to school. I'd like to become a doctor one day, so.	labels:Wow.
text:I'm interested in psychology, psychiatry, something like that, so.	labels:You've got big dreams.
text:Yeah.	labels:Cool. All right. Have you started thinking about schools or majors? I guess you're thinking about psychology as a major.
text:Yeah, psychology, I haven't really thought too about which school, I mean, I-	labels:Right.
text:Everyone wants to shoot for the Ivy leagues, so [chuckles]	labels:All right. And how about your grades?
text:Uh, they're pretty good, you know, high three-point somethings.	labels:Okay. Good. Very good. All right. Well, what are the kinds of things do you do for fun on weekends?
text:Uh, I usually go out with my friends. Uh, we'll go to the movies or we'll most likely we'll just meet up at someone's house-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and just hang out and things.	labels:Mm-hmm. When you're hanging out, is there ever alcohol?
text:Sometimes, [chuckles] I'm gonna be honest sometimes.	labels:Uh-huh So how often do you think you drink alcohol?
text:Um, depending on how much schoolwork there is When there's not, it might be like every other weekend or like three weekends out of the month or something like that.	labels:Oh, so you're drinking a lot?
text:A little, yeah.	labels:Okay. And how much are you drinking on the days that you're-- on the days that you drink?
text:Um, I don't, we don't get blackout drunk or anything. It's more of like a little tipsy kind of thing.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I have gotten blackout drunk before-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-but I kind of did that, learned my lesson, didn't like it.	labels:Got it. So you've-you've had some pretty heavy drinking. What-what do you think is the most you've ever had?
text:Like how many drinks?	labels:Yeah.
text:Um, it was a good amount. It was the first time I ever drank and it was like three or four cups, but it was mixing different things.	labels:Okay, so you don't even know.
text:So, I'm not-- Yeah.	labels:Okay. So, and then your friends drink too?
text:Yeah. Yes. Not all of them, but some of them do.	labels:Okay. And how much do they typically drink?
text:More or less the same amount. So right now the most we'll have is maybe like one cup after that one time, but sometimes one or two, but they can be kind of heavy.	labels:Okay, so it's one cup, but it's not-not one drink.
text:Oh, it's a red, you know, typical. Yeah.	labels:It has a lot of alcohol in it.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Okay. Um, so gosh, you're-you're actually really drinking quite a lot. Um, you know, your level of drinking puts you in what we call a high-risk group.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:So, is that surprising to you?
text:A little bit.	labels:Yeah. Um, so we call it high-risk because it means that there's actually quite a bit of chances that you're gonna have some bad consequences from drinking like that. So, you know, things like, um, having car accidents, or other accidents, or getting in fights, or, you know, sexual assault, or health problems, or developing alcoholism. Have you thought about those things?
text:Not too much, to be honest. I-I've always thought since it's, you know, within my small group of friends-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:-and we usually sleep over each other's house, we don't get into the problems of drinking and driving, and possibly sexual assaults and things like that.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:But I haven't really thought about possible alcoholism or anything.	labels:Okay. So it's, um, so it's good, because you're not drinking and driving, but you're still really drinking a lot. Um, and yeah. Okay. So, let's-let's talk a little bit about that, how you might be able to make some changes. Because I think you really need to- need to stop drinking like this.
text:Okay.	labels:So, um, do you think you could quit drinking or?
text:Yeah, I think I could. I don't need it. For instance, it-it is-- it is used as a kind of, like, let's get the party going.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:But we haven't always had it-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:-obviously. So, I think it would be possible to stop drinking.	labels:Okay. So, does that mean you're gonna stop drinking?
text:Um, I would probably start off by like, because my friends are also involved, so I'd be like, "Hey, guys, I don't think I'm gonna drink today."	labels:Uh-huh.
text:And kind of see how that goes. Because—	labels:Okay. Um, you don't sound very much like you think that's gonna work.
text:Yeah. It's, you know, it's one thing to control my own drinking, and it's another thing when everyone else around me is drinking and then there's like that pressure-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-of, "Oh, they're gonna think I look stupid."	labels:Okay. So, how are you gonna quit drinking without your friends thinking you look stupid?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. Um, so I mean, do you think they're really good friends of yours if they're gonna give you such a hard time?
text:My close ones, I know they wouldn't be, you know, have a problem with that. But the ones that I'm not that close with, but I'll still like hang out with-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:-those are probably the ones that like might ostracize me for something or.	labels:It sounds like you might be better off without them though. They’re-
text:Yeah.	labels:- maybe not very good friends.
text:Probably, might be too judgmental.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, um, so I think we should set a goal that you're gonna stop drinking.
text:Okay.	labels:And, um, I think you should probably stop as soon as possible, like this weekend.
text:Okay.	labels:Um, so the way this normally works is, you know, we set you a goal, and then I'll have you come back and we'll talk about it again in a couple of weeks and make sure that you actually stopped. Um, and so what do you think about that?
text:Um, I think-- I think the possibility.	labels:Okay. So-
text:I think if you make a good plan, like I think I'd be able to follow through with it.	labels:Okay, great. So, the plan is gonna be that you're gonna quit and, um, the friends that you have that you don't think are supportive, you're just gonna, I guess, not hang out with anymore.
text:Yeah. I think I can do that.	labels:Okay. And then, um, you know, like, are your friends in band drinking?
text:Um, not-not really. The ones that drink more are the ones like my class friends. My band friends, we’re focused on band-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:-so I can't really—	labels:Okay. So, that might be good, is really just to focus more on band. Um, because you know, the other big concern I have for you is if you wanna go to medical school, you're not ever gonna get into medical school if you're drinking like this.
text:Yeah.	labels:You know, like college is gonna be really hard. And especially with all those pre-med classes, you're not gonna be able to handle it drinking this much. You know, have you thought about that?
text:Not too much, to be honest.	labels:Yeah. Okay. So, setting this goal then of quitting drinking is gonna be really helpful for you. And um, it sounds like i-it shouldn't be that tough really, um, especially because you can just stop hanging out with-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-the people who drink a lot, um, since you have some other friends. Um, yeah. So, do you have any questions for me or?
text:Um, what should I-- uh, yeah, I do. So what should I say like once, let's say, I hang out with my friends and they're like, "Hey, why aren't you- why aren't you drinking?"	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Like how should I go about that situation?	labels:Well, you know, one good option would be to just review with them review with them all the bad things about alcohol. You can say, you know, "I thought about it, and I realized it's gonna mess up my schoolwork. And you know, it's really a lot of risk for my health." "I don't want to become an alcoholic." Um, you know, "I don't want to get liver disease.", "I don't want to end up driving drunk or getting into accidents-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-or getting in fights." You know, one thing you could bring up is, "I've heard a lot of stories about kids who you know, are at parties and they're drunk and acting stupid, and then people post stuff on Instagram."
text:Mm.	labels:And you know, that's it for their social life. It's like over.
text:Yeah.	labels:So—
text:And-and you know, like professional life as well.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I don't want that biting me in the butt, [chuckles] in the back.	labels:Yeah. So I think just tell your friends you know, you realized there's always bad things about it and you don't want to do it anymore, so you're just not going to.
text:Okay.	labels:And then-
text:I think I can do that.	labels:-you can tell them to stop too. You know, then that'd be really good. You'd being a good friend.
text:It'd be easier as-- You know, as a group we-we all work together to become better.	labels:Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. All right. Any other questions or anything else I can help with?
text:No. I think- I think I'm good.	labels:Okay. So, like I said, I'll plan to meet with you again in a couple weeks.
text:Okay.	labels:And make sure that you actually quit drinking.
text:Okay.	labels:All right.
text:Sound good.	labels:Great.	episode:True
text:Fine. Where do you want me to sign?	labels:Well, you can sign right there. Seems like you're not in the mood to talk today.
text:Not really.	labels:Okay. You know it seems like you had uh, a day at school. I noticed that uh, you missed your first hour of class today as well.
text:Yeah, whatever. I just, yeah.	labels:It seems like that doesn't-isn't really a concern for you at this time?
text:It's just like the same thing every day like, I don't really know why. Like um, so I signed your paper, why are asking me all these questions?	labels:So you're kind of wondering what the point of these visits are, me coming to your house.
text:Yup.	labels:Okay. Would it be okay with you if I kind of explained again kind of what this program is about?
text:I guess so.	labels:You know that I will be stopping by every day just to make sure that you're here and following and-and responding to your GPS and making sure that that's charged up every day and that, um, if you're leaving the house without permission, that we will be aware of that as well. Um, and kinda just to get to know you as well when I come for these visits 'cause, um, you know that's kind of my role as your caseworker is just to-to monitor your day-to-day stuff.
text:So you just wanna know my business?	labels:It does kinda come off as nosy at times I'm sure.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:I know uh, some clients have struggled with understanding that I really do care about you. And you know that when we first met that you had expressed a goal of, um, getting off this program as quickly as possible.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:So I know just kinda being here when you need to be here is one way of doing that.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yet you still can seem kind of annoyed that this is something that we still have to do.
text:Yeah. I mean I guess I'll be here if I have to be but I can't make any promises that I won't leave.	labels:So you're still kinda concerned that you're not quite sure if you will be able to do this successfully?
text:No, 'cause this just kinda feels like why do you need to know my business? Why do you care?	labels:Um, and-and I'm sure that does seem kind of confusing too 'cause I'm sure you've got a lot of other people involved in your life right now with the courts I'm sure, I know that your mom is concerned about you as well and there's this one other person kinda checking in on you as well.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:I'm sure it's pretty overwhelming.
text:It's just like a lot.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And you feel like there's all these rules.	labels:Yeah. And there is and I'm sure that it is really struggling at times too.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Um, and I know some clients have expressed just really valuing their freedom. They didn't realize how much they really valued that until it was gone.
text:Right, I think that's the only thing that I wish I had now.	labels:Your freedom?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:What would be some ways you could go about being able to get your freedom back?
text:I guess like your sign your papers.	labels:Mm-hmm, yup that's one step, just sign the papers when I come by. Even though it seems like it's kinda annoying at times, it is something that we're contracted to do.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:What are some other ways you feel like you can get your freedom back?
text:Not do this again so that I don't ever have to be here and be stuck in my house and all of these people coming to visit me and know my business.	labels:So that's something that will motivate you to not do what you did, not commit that crime, and, um, 'cause you do not like when we stop by?
text:Yup.	labels:That's okay. Well, I know that you are making an effort. I do appreciate then and when-when I do stop by that you still sign the paperwork even though you feel like it's annoying at times. So, thank you for, uh, at least doing that.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Okay. Um, before I leave today is there anything else you'd like to add or-or need to share with me?
text:Not really.	labels:Okay, well just so you know, again, I do have to come back so I'll see you later today then.
text:All right.	labels:All right.
text:No.	labels:Okay. I see that you filled out our, um, alcohol and drug questionnaire. Is it okay if we go through this together?
text:Sure.	labels:Okay. What we talk about is confidential. I only tell your parents about what we say if you give your permission or if I become worried about a danger to-to you or to someone else. Does that make sense?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So, let's take a look. So I see that you have marked that you sometimes use alcohol, and that you have used alcohol to relax, feel better about yourself or fit in. Do you mind telling me a little bit more about your alcohol use?
text:It's not a big deal. Sometimes with my friends, we'll drink a few beers and when we're hanging out or when we're at a party, and sometimes rum and cokes.	labels:Okay, so how many do you usually have at a time?
text:Um, three or four, probably. I don't keep track.	labels:Okay. And how often?
text:Um, probably about once or twice a month.	labels:Okay. So, you drink with friends, sort of three or four beers or mixed drinks, one or two times a month. How long have you been doing that?
text:Probably since last October.	labels:So, for about six months. I'm curious. What do you like about drinking alcohol?
text:What do I like about it?	labels:Yeah.
text:Um, I don't know. It's just fun to drink with my friends, like when we're at a party at someone else's house, and we're drinking with other people that we don't know. It tastes good.	labels:Okay. So, it sounds like you feel relaxed and have fun when you're drinking with friends and you like the taste.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Okay. I'm also curious, are there any parts about your alcohol use that you don't like?
text:Um, I don't like when I get sick in the mornings 'cause of hangovers and-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-when I start throwing up, that's not- I don't like that.	labels:Have you ever experienced a-a blackout, like when you've been drinking and you wake up and you don't remember what happened?
text:No, but that happened to someone I know, though.	labels:Okay. And have you had any problems related to-to your drinking alcohol, like at home or school or somewhere else?
text:Um, one time I missed first period of school 'cause I had a hangover and I was late getting up.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Mm, mom got mad at me 'cause I wouldn't get out of bed and she said she knew I had a hangover.	labels:Mm-hmm. Have you told your mother that you drink with your friends?
text:No, but I got grounded for two weeks after that. [chuckles]	labels:So more negative things about your drinking, like getting into trouble with your mom and missing a class at school when you had a hangover?
text:Yeah, but I only missed school once.	labels:Okay. I see on the questionnaire that you have not ridden in a car with someone who's been drinking and you haven't driven a car, um, after you've been drinking. Is that correct?
text:Yeah.	labels:That's great. And I hope you continue to avoid those things. As your doctor, I want you to know that I'm concerned about your drinking. When teens drink, things can go wrong, like injuring yourself. Even when you don't drink too excess, though, your brain is still developing and is very sensitive to the effects of alcohol.
text:Okay.	labels:That's why I recommend that all my adolescent patients not drink at all. So if you were thinking today about how ready you feel to stop drinking alcohol on a scale of zero to ten, with zero not being ready at all and ten feeling very ready, what number would you pick?
text:Um, probably a five.	labels:A five? So, I'm curious. Why didn't you pick a lower number like a two or three that would mean you're only a little bit ready to stop drinking?
text:Well, I guess I'm just tired of getting in trouble.	labels:Okay. What could you do to avoid getting into trouble?
text:Um, not drink.	labels:[chuckles] Have you ever tried not drinking or stopping drinking?
text:No, not really.	labels:Okay. What some people your age do is try stopping drinking for a period of time just to see what that feels like.
text:I could probably do that.	labels:So, how long do you think you could go without drinking?
text:I don't know.	labels:Do you think you could go two months without drinking?
text:Yeah, probably.	labels:Okay. What things would make it easier for you to not drink?
text:Um, I could probably drink something else when my friends are drinking, like just coke.	labels:Anything else to make things easier for you?
text:I can probably hang out with some of my friends who don't drink or inviting them to parties and having fun 'cause not everyone drinks at parties.	labels:Okay. Is there anybody in your life that you can talk to about this, who give you some support for not drinking?
text:Yeah. The-- My friends who don't drink would probably be happy that I'm not drinking either and yes, they'd support me.	labels:Great. So you've come up with some reasons to stop drinking, like having hangovers and throwing up and getting into trouble. And you've developed some strategies to-to try to not drink, like spending more time with friends who don't drink or having non-alcoholic drinks when people around you are drinking alcohol. I think that's a great plan. I'm really proud of you for giving this a try. How about if I have you make an appointment for two months from now and then I'll see you back and we can see how things are going?
text:Fine.	labels:Um, I noticed some yelling going on in the house, what's going on?
text:It's not really any of your business.	labels:So nothing you want to talk about right now?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:My guess is you're probably involved in that.
text:Hmm.	labels:Okay, I understand that sometimes if you're feeling angry or upset about something, the last thing you want to do is share with your caseworker at that time, but, um, you know I am here for you, and if there's anything you ever want to talk about or share with me, that is something that I would love to-to here, and I'll just see sit here and listen if that's something that you would find helpful.
text:Okay.	labels:Okay. You know what? I-it seems like things have been really a struggle for you lately, and I have noticed that you haven't been in the best mood, so I'm really- I am concerned about you, but again, it's your choice if that's something that you feel like you want to share with me.
text:Okay.	labels:All right, well, you know I will be by later today. If, um, you have any questions or if you want to talk, um, otherwise, again, I'll stop by and call you later.
text:Okay.	labels:All right, take care, bye.	episode:True
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-they like all my stories, they are really receptive-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-but they don't know that I have one diabetes story.
labels:Okay.	text:That one I haven't shared yet.
labels:Uh-huh.	text:So, I guess I'll make it short to exactly the incident 'cause I know we can't avoid it now. Uh, yeah, well, that one what happened was I-I was invited to my first party in this crew-
labels:Uh-huh.	text:-which I was super excited about.
labels:Sure.	text:But, it was an evening party and we all wore really nice dresses-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-the short ones, the really huggy ones. [chuckles]
labels:Uh-huh. Uh-huh.	text:So I actually decided, and I know this wasn't the smartest decision of mine, but I did not wear my insulin pump.
labels:Uh-huh.	text:Which was the reason why I didn't want quite to address 'cause I know better. I-
labels:You probably think that I'm going to get on your case about that or something.	text:Yes, I know, I know, I know.
labels:Yeah.	text:Like the learning is done but-
labels:Hmm.	text:-but yes I guess it's unavoidable that we address it. [laughter]
labels:Yeah and I-- Yeah, you really-- You're already like, you're taking a look at this and sure don't need me like-- Obviously, you don't want to be doing that in the first place, but—	text:Yeah.
text:Mm.	labels:-what was different this time and your thoughts about coming?
text:I suppose, my expectations are a wee bit clearer as to why I'm here.	labels:Yeah.
text:I guess, I'm-- It made me think about how much money I have been losing recently. So, yeah. I'm happier to be here. [chuckles]	labels:Okay, okay. So, there's a shift from last time?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah. Yeah. My sense is we'll be able to work pretty well together. That's my, sort of, sense of, uh-- After last time, I thought, you know, "Here's a young woman who's, you know, got some energy to get things together-
text:Mm.	labels:-and, uh--" So, really, what we'd like to talk about today is-is get a sense of, um-- Let's talk about the things that would be good to work with, um, over the next, you know, nine months together, really.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:So, one of the things that we started to touch on, last time, was this issue of gambling, and, um, you were talking, last time, about how the gambling had, sort of, got you into trouble with your family.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah. So, thinking about, like, you know, last time, you-you started to say that, well, you thought it was-- you deserved it and there was some thinking around that, so I'm, sort of, wondering how open you are to-to exploring that from some different angles?
text:Yeah. I'm happy to explore it, so to speak. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah. Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, so how-how-- You know, like-- 'Cause, sometimes, when we start to open things up, and then you think, "Oh, it feels a bit uncomfortable." So, how do you manage things when you get uncomfortable? How have you managed those in the past?
text:Hmm. I don't know, I probably lock off a wee bit. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah. Yeah. So, how would I know if we were talking and you were blocking off? What would I notice, uh, in our session together?
text:Yeah, um. I'm sure you've already noticed. [chuckles] Um, I don't know, probably fidget.	labels:Yeah?
text:That's why I am still a bit—	labels:Yeah, that's okay.
text:[chuckles]	labels:So-so, what would be really helpful maybe because I might miss it, you know, so, like, could you tell me? It would be really helpful if—
text:When I'm feeling uncomfortable?	labels:Yeah, yeah. If you could just say, "Ken, hi, I am starting to, you know, tune it out here, starting to get uncomfortable," that would be really helpful.
text:Okay.	labels:Yeah?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah, thanks for that, okay. So, let's think about the-- It has to do with how you just sorted out the thing around the gambling 'cause last time you were here, you told me that you get a buzz, you know, it seemed like you were gambling a bit more than your girlfriends were aware of, and-and you said you owe one of your friends some money.
text:Mm.	labels:So, um, how serious do you think this issue is to sort?
text:[sighs] I suppose it's really serious if I wanna get out of my-my-my debt.	labels:Yeah, okay.
text:Credit comes out of my ears, and mom and dad aren't bailing me out anymore, so-	labels:Yeah.
text:-I suppose, I've gotta sort it out myself.	labels:Okay. So, again, on a scale of 1 to 100, how serious-- how important is it to sort it out? Yeah.
text:About 80. [chuckles]	labels:About 80? Right up there, yeah, yeah? And another question that's, sort of, related to that, how confident are you that you can, you know, you can actually get it sorted and get on with life?
text:I'm gonna say, I'm completely confident.	labels:Yeah? But, what would-
text:Yes.	labels:-your level be on a scale of 1 to 100? Where does your confidence sit?
text:What, on my confidence to stop? [chuckles]	labels:Well, to get it sorted. Not necessarily to stop. But we don't- we don't know whether-whether stopping's the right answer here, I don't know, but-but, your confidence to sort it out.
text:It's hard when it's part of your lifestyle, you know?	labels:Mm.
text:When I went with my girlfriends to the pub last night and I went and hit a bit of a flutter-	labels:Hmm.
text:-so, you know, I think I'm a bit weird if I just sit-sit at the bar on my own. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah. Yeah, so-so, you fluttered last night with them?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yep. Okay, okay. And-and when they stopped fluttering, were you still fluttering or did you stop with them? Where-where were you with—
text:Oh, I had to stop halfway 'cause I'd ran out of money. [chuckles]	labels:Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah, yeah. So, you were saying before that, you know, there was, you know, money you couldn't really afford-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-'cause you owed your mom and dad some money, and they weren't bailing you out anymore, and you had to go out and find some money, I think?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah? Yeah. Yep. So, it seems like almost, like, you're still in the behavior, you know, still creating some problems?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah? Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:There's some feelings when you, kind of, think about that?
text:I don't know, but I'd like to get back on track, but—	labels:Yeah.
text:Not really planning on spending my life in debt. [chuckles]	labels:Mm.
text:I don't mind traveling, and, you know, I've got friends that are saving for the [unintelligible 00:18:27] and I'm 25 and working in retail, and got four credit cards-	labels:Yeah.
text:-so I won't be doing any traveling any time soon.	labels:Okay. So, again, that, sort of, sounds really important. So, what's-what's your dreams? What are your dreams? Where do you wanna be in five years' time? Where does Catherine wanna be? What do you wanna be doing? What are your dreams?
text:Maybe I wanna have traveled and found the man of my dreams. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:I don't know. Kids maybe, but-	labels:Okay.
text:-I'm not gonna- [sighs] I'm not gonna make a decent mom the way I am, at the moment, am I? So I probably need to get on track at some stage. [chuckles] I'll be pushing 30 and still in debt, at this rate.	labels:Okay, okay. So, it seems like you're-you're, kind of, in a state in your life of considering your next steps.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah? Yeah. "Do I continue with the, you know, my little current lifestyle," and you are so much the party girl you used to be-- I was speaking to last time-
text:[chuckles]	labels:-wasn't that-- Is that right? Yeah? So, "Do I live a party lifestyle-- party-girl kind of lifestyle, or am I got some other dreams to follow?" So, they're hard calls to make. And-and it all-- And there are no three ways. We will have to make those calls at some point.
text:Mm.	labels:And, my sense, is that some of the challenge for you, at the moment? Yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:When you think five years ahead, which-which position do you wanna be in? Which-which feels best? Party girl still, you know, with those four credit cards maxed out major, or would you wanna be actually, you know, thinking about having traveled and, you know, maybe, starting a family, those other things? Which-which direction feels best for you at this point?
text:Party girl at 30s is a bit sad, really, isn't it? [chuckles]	labels:I don't know.
text:I don't know. It's been fun up to now-	labels:What's your hunch? Yeah.
text:-but I really do wanna travel, so.	labels:Yeah, yeah. Where in particular? You've got any ideas about what—
text:Um, Egypt, always been, yeah.	labels:Egypt?
text:Yeah.	labels:Uh, what's that about Egypt, that, uh?
text:Oh, I just think it's just fascinating.	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah. Just the, um, the outlook, and the culture and the history and-	labels:Oh.
text:-somewhere I've always wanted to go.	labels:Yeah.
text:It's not the safest place at the moment, mind you, but [chuckles].	labels:No, that's true.
text:Yeah.	labels:But for obvious times.
text:Yep.	labels:It could be very different.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah. Okay, so you've been-- How long have you had this-this idea for that that's what you'd like and that's where you'd like to go?
text:Oh, since I was young, early teens.	labels:Oh, yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:Mm. So how much does the kind of, uh, current lifestyle rob you of that, you know, take away from that dream?
text:Yeah, well, I suppose with the amount of money I've spent over the last five years I probably could have gone to Egypt and back five times by now. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah. Well, yeah.
text:Mm.	labels:There you go. So there's some decisions to make around, uh, which dream, which path you wanna follow.
text:Mm.	labels:Hmm. What do you reckon to be the-the hardest bit of taking that pathway to-to traveling and realizing the-the dream? What would be the tough things that you'd have to confront?
text:I believe then to cut off some of my friendships. Um, 'cause since you see that's, you know, part of their lifestyle.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah. It will be a big change.	labels:Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. So I see this is- this is something you've been thinking about for a while. So how far away do you think you are from that change? You know, 'cause obviously it can-can be on the never, never, but how far away are you from it, making some decisions about that?
text:Seems like a bit of an unrealistic dream. Um, and I'd like to take the first step but, uh, that's gonna be easy.	labels:No, no. That'll be easy. So what is the first step for you?
text:Probably, um, [chuckles] cutting up the credit cards for a starter, and trying to restrain myself, and not to be led into temptation, I suppose, so.	labels:Okay.
text:You know, if the pokies are at the pubs, just don't go to the pub. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah, it's hard, isn't it? It's hard being in the pub thing, in that environment.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:We'd-we'd-we'd have an illustration for them, I suppose. We call those high-risk situations. You know, it's that-- so you might learn some language about some sort of the way that we describe-
text:Mm. [chuckles]	labels:-it and stuff, but, you know, being at the pub, you know, you want to sort of get the buzz of, you know, gambling, you know, horror situation, really easy to just go against what you decide that you wanted to do. Yeah?
text:Mm.	labels:Yeah? So how today have you sort of found some ways to manage that?
text:Um, I haven't managed it to-to this point, so [chuckles] I don't know.	labels:Mm.
text:Um, I suppose I've just got to get tougher with myself.	labels:Yeah. I think somewhat being tough with yourself, what-- yeah, people often say that, but, you know, it's not-- I think there are some things that you can do, and you've already-already identified a really good strategy.
text:What? Cutting off some of my friendships?	labels:Well, it's a couple of ideas. O-one, thinking about who your friends are and will your friends support you to realize your dream of traveling to Egypt.
text:Mm.	labels:Um, and the other idea you talked about before was, actually, cutting up your credit cards. So kind of amazing what that thing makes there on different cards isn't it?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:It's very helpful and healthy. So, yeah, a couple of really good ideas already you've got, guess so?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah. So that's-that's some work that we can continue to work with. Yeah? Yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:So 'cause-'cause I asked the question before, is what might be the hardest thing, and you'd identified that your friends, you know, could be one of the habits.
text:Mm.	labels:Yep, yep. Could that mean that some of your friends are probably moving around some similar sort of stuff like you, wondering about where they're going and-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-what they want to further their dreams, yeah?
text:Mm. Yeah.	labels:Okay, so we talked about sort of where things you-w-- Where you might be in five years and which path you wanna take, yep, yep? And you seemed very clear about it.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah, yeah. Something we can- we can do over the next while is-is really get some very concrete things in place to support you to do that.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. So what's one thing you can do between now and the next time we meet?
text:Find the scissors. [laughs]	labels:Yeah, find the scissors.
text:Cut out the girls.	labels:Yeah, yeah, yeah.
text:Then, um, I don't know if the debts are still gonna be there or not but I-I've gotta find-	labels:Yeah.
text:-a way to pay them off and-	labels:Truly.
text:-I don't know how I'm gonna do that.	labels:Yeah. Okay, so sounds like so-some budget to buy stuff will be helpful.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah, and of the things that-that we often put people in touch with here is some budget advice service, it's a great service here, um, and something that you can get to.
text:Mm.	labels:So let's talk about how we can organize a-a meeting with them.
text:Mm-hmm, that will be good.	labels:Okay.
labels:Okay. Um, but we were talking a little bit earlier-- earlier in our conversation, you had said that you did feel like it was maybe causing some of your agitation. So it's a little bit of, I'm not sure of what-- Um, so where are we? Did-did you-- do you feel like you do have some agitation out of coffee, or is it just no problem at all?	text:Well, you know, sometimes it makes me a little jittery and, you know, I have to go to the bathroom more frequently than some of my co-workers, but-- And-and working, um, in the hospital, they don't really look so highly on-on going the bathroom frequently. But you know, it-it keeps me awake, it keeps me aware, it-it makes me more able to like, you know, do my job better. And so I really don't see that it's a-it's a real issue.
labels:Yeah.	text:Um, you know, and-and-- I mean, maybe my blood pressure is a little high, but—
labels:Yeah. So let me see if I had this. So y- so you got some positives, the-the awareness, and then you feel kinda on your game?	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Um, and then there's some negatives with, um, you know, your-your co-workers, um, that they don't, you know-- then your boss may not want you, you know, checking out-	text:Right.
labels:-on the hospital floor, you know, for frequently.	text:Gotta stay on, yeah.
labels:Yeah, yeah, and then the blood pressure thing. Does that sound about right?	text:Yeah, yeah. Well, you know, and sometimes, like I said, it does kind of make me a little jittery and, um, I don't know. I-I-I'm not- I'm not as happy and relaxed as I normally am. But you know, I-I really like it, and-and like I said, it makes me more aware of what's going on and-and I'm-- I-I feel like I'm much more observant.
labels:Yeah. How about frequency? Do you feel like you're good on how much coffee you're drinking?	text:Yeah. I have about four cups a day.
labels:Okay. Okay. And that feels about right to you?	text:Yeah. I mean, I've-- I mean, it's the co-workers that-that work at night. Gosh, they bring in a carafe.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:And, uh, I-I can only imagine-
labels:Yeah.	text:-what-what their bodies are like.
labels:Yeah, yeah. What would happen if you-- if you looked at, maybe reducing that with that habit? Would that get rid of maybe some of the things that are problematic?	text:Reducing it, like-- what do you mean?
labels:The number. Just the number.	text:Yeah, yeah but, I mean, how-how much are we talking?
labels:I don't-- you tell me. I mean, um, you're-you're drinking four a day.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Um--	text:You're probably-- you know, because I-I gotta have that morning cup, I really-- you know I really like waking up and-and that whole ritual. The, um-- you know, making the coffee and-
labels:Yeah.	text:-I just really like the flavors.
labels:Yeah.	text:So I-I definitely don't want to give that up, but—
labels:I gotcha. Okay.	text:Uh—
labels:So that one's important.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Yeah.	text:And then, of course, you know, working a 12-hour shift, I-I really think that, you know, the afternoon to keep me going until the evening is-is a really good idea too.
labels:Yeah.	text:I could probably get up the mid-morning.
labels:I think that's great.	text:Yeah, yeah, yeah.
labels:I think so. So you've identified one of the four that might-- you might be willing to-to try-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-for a while to-to let go of. What do you- what do you think of that?	text:I think that does sound all right.
labels:Okay.	text:Yeah.
labels:Good.	text:I think I could do that.	episode:True
text:Uh, well, I know the flu can be pretty bad, but I'm in pretty good health, so I don't really feel like I need it. Uh, it's kind of just more for old people, right?	labels:Mm, um, so you're thinking it's really just for people who are-are vulnerable to illness?
text:Yeah.	labels:Would it be okay if I shared a little more information with you about the flu vaccine and the importance of it?
text:Okay.	labels:So you're right that you're young and healthy and you don't have a lot of complicating illnesses that mean that you would probably do okay if you got the flu. But we do know that the elderly are more at risk, pregnant people, babies are at risk of having serious complications from the flu, and by you getting the vaccine, that helps prevent you from passing it on to other people.
text:Okay.	labels:So having shared that information with you, how do you feel about the idea of the flu vaccine?
text:Well, my grandparents probably wouldn't handle the flu very well-	labels:Mm.
text:-and my co-worker is pregnant too.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So-so, yeah, I guess, I should, uh, get it for their sake.	labels:Okay, so you've got some people in your life who are vulnerable to possible illness, and making this decision to get the flu shot will help protect them.
text:You're welcome.	labels:sI see from the questionnaire, did you have got in trouble while using alcohol? Can you tell me more about that?
text:Well, a friend and I would snuck out one night to go to the park, and we got a couple of beers from his house, but the cop came by, and so we threw them in the bushes. He was originally gonna give us a curfew ticket but ended up not to. Luckily, he didn't see the beer.	labels:That must be really scary.
text:Yeah, it was. If my mom would have found out, she would've killed me.	labels:I understand. So tell me, how often do you drink?
text:Well, I've only tried drinking once or twice.	labels:I'm gonna make sure I understand. You have tried drinking a couple of times, and you almost got in trouble once. Did I get that right?
text:Yeah, that's right.	labels:As your provider, I'm a little concerned about your health. Drinking alcohol could harm you, and I would like to share some information with you. Is that okay?
text:Well, I'm not sure if this information is for me, since I've only been drinking once or twice.	labels:I understand. You're just experimenting with alcohol. Then, how about if you share with me what the effects of alcohol are?
text:Well, all I really know is that it's not good for you.	labels:Are you surprised what that might be true?
text:Yeah, and a couple of my friends drink too.	labels:Well, you might not be drinking that much, and other kids are also trying alcohol. I'd like to share with you the risk of using. Alcohol and drugs could really harm you because your brain is still changing. It also-- you're very high risk for becoming addicted. Alcohol and drugs could also interfere with your role in life and your goals, especially in sports, and it could cause unintended sex. How do you feel about this information?
text:I really didn't think about how this would affect me playing sports.	labels:Based on your reason for your visit today, I feel like you really wanted to play soccer, and you have great goals about that.
text:Yeah, I would like to play soccer in college.	labels:That's a great goal to have for yourself.
text:Yeah, I would also like to get scholarships.	labels:Scholarship will really help you achieving your goals.
text:Yeah.	labels:I would like to share with you these materials to show the risk of drinking at younger age. I also wanted to encourage you to think about these risks. What do you think about that?
text:Well, I will take a look at it, and I'll definitely read it, and I don't wanna become addicted, and I would like to continue to play sports as long as possible.	labels:It sounds like you're in the right track, looks like you care about your health, and you care about your goals in life. I'm here to answer any questions.
text:Thanks for all the information.	labels:You're welcome.	episode:True
text:Okay.	labels:Okay. Why don't we start by just having you tell me a little bit about yourself?
text:Okay. Um, my name is Laura and I'm 17 and I'm a senior in high school.	labels:Okay. And what do you like to do for fun?
text:Um, mostly just hang out with my friends and stuff on the weekends, things like that.	labels:Mm-hmm, and when you and your friends are hanging out, and what- what do you do? Do you go to football games, go to parties?
text:Uh, yeah, if it's school-related, maybe like a game or two, or go to the mall, like, to shop or go to the movies or something, and at night, maybe like a party or something if someone's throwing.	labels:Okay. And what kind of hobbies do you have?
text:Um, I like to read and I like to go outside and, like, take walks and, like, hike and stuff. I'm very outdoorsy, so-	labels:Oh, cool. What are your plans for after high school?
text:Well, I plan to apply to college and maybe, you know, have a good career and something like that, hopefully.	labels:That's great. What do you think you'll study?
text:Well, I'm-I'm looking at the journalism, maybe pre-law.	labels:Oh, neat.
text:-which is a little different, but-	labels:Yeah, that's great. That's a really good goal.
text:Yeah. Thanks.	labels:It's, uh, hard work to get into law school. Are you doing well in school? What kind of grades do you get?
text:Yeah, I'm doing okay. I'm getting mostly A's and B's, so I'm pretty good, I'm okay.	labels:Okay. What classes are you not getting A's and B's in?
text:Um, I think all my grades are A's and B's, so, yeah.	labels:Okay. And do you know where you're going to apply to college?
text:Um, I'm not sure yet, but I'm looking into schools like in the area, so maybe, I don't know, maybe I'll leave home or something.	labels:Okay. Cool. And, you know, what made you decide maybe law school or-or journalism?
text:Um, well, I'm definitely not a math or science person, so I started off by there that I started looking at careers that maybe I would like. So-	labels:Okay. Great. Sounds like you have, like I said, really good goals and you're working hard in school. Um, you said that when you're going out with your friends, you like to hang out and shop and stuff like that and also go to parties, so do you drink alcohol?
text:Um, not really. Maybe one or two drinks at a party at the most.	labels:Okay. And how often do you think you drink?
text:Um, maybe like once or twice a month at the most.	labels:Mm-hmm, so like once or twice a month you're having alcohol?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay, and so that's maybe like 20 times a year.
text:Possibly, yeah.	labels:So that's actually kind of a lot of drinking then?
text:Yeah, I guess you can say that.	labels:Okay. What do you think is the most you've ever had?
text:Um, just two drinks at a party at the most. I don't-- I don't like to drink a lot. I don't-- Getting drunk is not something that appeals to me. So, I just have, like, a drink in my hand, so my friends won't bug me about not drinking. It's just like to look like I'm actually doing something. Most of- a lot of the time, I don't even drink at all. So-	labels:But you've been drunk before?
text:Um, no, not really, maybe tipsy, but not like drunk.	labels:Okay. Um, so the most you've ever, ever had is two drinks in a day.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. Interesting. So, do you know all the bad stuff about alcohol?
text:Um, yeah, yeah.	labels:Okay. Um, so one of the things that, you know, is really important to talk to teenagers about is drinking and driving. So, um, you know, that's actually a really big problem. And even around here, we have kids die every year from getting in a drunk driving accident. So that's something that you really need to make sure you're not doing, all right? Have you ever done that? Have you ever gotten in the car-
text:No, I have drunk-driven and never got in a car with a drunk driver.	labels:Okay. Uh, how much do your friends drink?
text:Um, I mean, I have some friends that drink some more than others, like, my close group of friends don't really drink as much because I'm not really interested in that, but I know that there are people that drink a lot more.	labels:Okay. What about at these parties you're going to, are there other kids there who are drinking a lot?
text:Yeah. There are kids that drink a lot more than I do. Definitely, yeah.	labels:And do you hang out with them?
text:Not really closely, like, I know who they are and I'll say hi, but not-- They're not really, like, close friends of mine.	labels:Mm-hmm, so, you know, even just hanging out around kids who are drinking a lot actually puts you at a lot more risk. Did you know that?
text:Um, yeah. That makes sense.	labels:Yeah, so, there, I mean, a lot of the other dangers of drinking, like, um, not just car accidents, but you can have other accidents, you know, people, um, you know, will fall or, um, you know, break things or a lot of people actually end up breaking their bones and ending up in the emergency room because they've been drunk and falling down or, you know, as a girl, it's really important too that you're careful because you could be sexually assaulted.
text:Yeah.	labels:You know, especially if you've been drinking, then, you know, you're at a lot more risk because a guy can take advantage of you. Did- have you thought about that?
text:Yeah, yeah, I have. That's, uh, one of the main reasons that I don't like to drink that much.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So-	labels:And then, um, you know, people get in fights more often when they've been drinking too. Um, also, you know, there have been a lot of kids, even at this school, who've gotten in trouble because they were drinking and someone took pictures with their cell phone and put it up on Facebook-
text:Yeah.	labels:And then their parents find out or the school finds out and, you know, we have a no-tolerance policy here about drugs and alcohol, and really can get you into trouble, and it could put your whole college career in jeopardy. Have you thought about that?
text:Yeah. Definitely, yeah.	labels:But you're still drinking.
text:Um, yeah, I mean, I guess it's the thing to do at a party, so-	labels:Uh-huh. So, I mean, do you think it's the thing to do if you wanna be an attorney?
text:Um, definitely not. That's why I don't try to drink that much. Just-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-make it look like I am, kind of.	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay. Hmm. So, I mean, I guess what we need to do then is kinda talk about some goals for how to be-
text:Okay.	labels:-safer.
text:Okay.	labels:Um, obviously, you shouldn't be drinking at all. Um, what do you think about that?
text:I definitely agree. I know that there are some other risks involved in alcohol, they are the ones you mentioned, like, health-wise and things like that, so, I agree that alcohol may not be the best thing.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, do you think you can quit?
text:Um, yeah, I mean, it's not, like, a really big part of my life, so.	labels:Okay. So, I'm going to write down then that you've decided to quit.
text:Okay.	labels:And, um, that's gonna be your goal, and that's great, you know, that's really why we're here, is to talk about that and-and make sure that you come to that decision. Um, so, I guess, can you quit this weekend then?
text:Yeah, yeah, definitely. I'll just not have a drink.	labels:Okay, and then what about your friends who are still drinking?
text:Um, I really can't control what they do, but I'll definitely try to get my closest friends to maybe stop like I will.	labels:Okay, and-and what if they won't?
text:Well, then, I guess, I'll just try to hang around them less or something. I'll try to find things for us to do that don't involve alcohol like a party or anything.	labels:Yeah. Probably if your friends won't quit drinking, you should just find new friends.
text:Okay.	labels:'Cause, you know, the problem is if they're drinking, they're gonna pressure you into drinking and then you're gonna feel awkward and, you know, you're gonna be stuck and-and not know what to do and really you'd just be better off probably without them. If they're- if they're the kind of people who are gonna keep drinking-
text:Yeah.	labels:-they're probably not a good influence.
text:Okay, yeah.	labels:Um, and then, then you'll be better set for college too because, you know, the issue is you're getting good grades now, but when you get to college, it's a lot harder and, you know, if you're needing really good grades to get into law school, which you will need, then you really can't be distracted by alcohol.
text:Okay, yeah, definitely.	labels:Okay, so, um, that's great 'cause it pretty much covers all the stuff that I think I needed to go over with you. Um, let's see. I guess we didn't talk about what would happen if your parents found out you were drinking.
text:They would be pretty upset. Yeah. They don't really condone alcohol use.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So-	labels:Okay, so, yeah, just another reason why you probably need to just quit then. Um, okay, yeah. I-- Okay, so, like I said, I'm gonna right down here that you've decided to quit and, um, uh, you know, I'm gonna be meeting with you again probably in the next semester sometime, so we can kinda check-in and-and make sure that, you know, that's still going well-
text:Okay.	labels:-and you're still not drinking and not hanging out with any people who are drinking. Um, is there anything else you'd like to talk about while you're here?
text:Um, no, no. I think I'm good.	labels:Okay. Um, any questions or anything-
text:Uh, no.	labels:-like that?
text:I have no questions.	labels:Okay. You're sure? Okay. All right. Um, well, that's probably it then. You can, uh, head back to class and-and thanks for coming in.
text:Hi.	labels:Um, we were talking a little bit earlier, and you said you wanted to talk about exercising.
text:I do.	labels:What's going on with that?
text:Well, I just can't seem to get back in the gym. I don't wanna-- I-I used to work out quite a bit, and in the last, I dunno, couple of years I've just-- I stopped going. I got busy, and now I'm out of the habit, and I-I really, I dunno, I feel like I need to get back.	labels:Well, I mean, I think you just need to maybe sit down and write down a list of reasons why you need to get back to the gym, and then on the other side of the list, put down, you know, um, ideas about what's going to help you get there.
text:Okay. Um. All right. Um—	labels:What gym do you belong to?
text:Uh, I belong to the-the Sport Fitness Center.	labels:Okay. And-and how far away is it from your house?
text:Just a couple of miles.	labels:Just a couple of miles. Mm. So you-- you know, you could, like, ride your bike or walk there, and it would be [unintelligible 00:01:12] too.
text:If I walked that far, I probably wouldn't even need to go to the gym, right?	labels:Well, I don't know about that. Um. That-- you know, it's really important that you get your, um, not just your cardiovascular-- that's a good idea for the cardiovascular, but also, you know, your, um, weightlifting, the [inaudible 00:01:32] [crosstalk]
text:[inaudible 00:01:33] training.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:It-it-it would be important.	labels:Yeah. So why-why do you want to-- what do you wanna do with that? You want to look different, or--?
text:Well, I-I-I-I would feel better. My-- I'd-I'd be able to wear more my clothes. I've been growing around the middle and I'd like to, uh, you know, go back to where I was, you know, get into a 34, 36 waist, you know.	labels:Okay.
text:I-I'm more comfortable-- I feel better. I think that's the main thing.	labels:Okay. Yeah, because your-your health really, to me, it's more important than your-your looks. I mean, don't get me wrong, I understand what you're saying, but, you know, it'd be great to get back in those jeans, but—
text:Yeah, yeah. It-it-it-- I-I am- I'm not getting any younger than I [unintelligible 00:02:18]	labels:Mm-hmm. Well, I think you know what to do. You've done it before.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Just a matter-- You just gotta do it.
text:I've gotta make time.	labels:Yeah.
text:I've gotta make time.	labels:Yeah. And so that might mean, you know, like giving up an hour's sleep, getting up an hour earlier in the day, and going there and getting it done then. That's what I do.
text:Yeah. Okay.	labels:Yeah.
text:All right.	labels:So when I see you next time, you know, that's what I'd like you to do is to, uh, experiment with getting up an hour earlier and, um-- You know, 'cause, uh, getting healthier is more important than sleep, you know. I mean, I know sleep is important, but-- And then bring that list back that we talked about.
text:Okay.	labels:Okay?
text:Okay.	labels:All right, so I'll see you next week.
text:Okay. Very good. Thanks.	labels:All right. All right. Bye.	episode:True
text:Uh, yeah. Yeah, that's fine.	labels:Thanks. When I looked at your form, it looks like you use heroin weekly and you injected. What part of your body do you normally inject in?
text:Uh, mostly in my left arm.	labels:Do you mind if I take a look at your arm, please?
text:Uh, no. That's okay. How's that?	labels:Okay. Well, I don't see any redness. Um, can you go ahead and touch that Miguel, and tell me if it feels warm to you or if it hurts?
text:Uh, nope. It feels okay.	labels:Thanks. Just so you know, when I talk to patients about drug use, my job is to be helpful. I'm not going to tell you what to do or what you should do. What I can do is share some information and be a resource. Does that make sense?
text:Uh, yeah, that's fine.	labels:Right. What else can you tell me about your heroin use?
text:Uh, I don't know. Um, I use maybe a few times a week.	labels:A couple of times a week. And where do you get your syringes?
text:Syringes? Uh, sometimes I'll buy them at Walgreens. Most times I'll just get them from the needle exchange.	labels:Uh, what one do you remember?
text:Uh, Northeast Glisan.	labels:Okay. How often do you use new deals when you inject?
text:Yeah, I use new needles every time, I never share.	labels:Yeah, it sounds like your health is important to you.
text:Yeah, that's right.	labels:And you showed up today to take care of your migraines.
text:Mm-hmm, yap.	labels:So, uh, you wrote on here that you've experienced withdrawal symptoms when you've stopped using in the past, is that right?
text:Uh, yeah. Yeah, if it's, uh, you know, if it's been a couple of days like I can go two days, three days tops before I start to feel really sick.	labels:What does that feel like?
text:Uh, geez. Yeah, I mean, it's the obvious stuff like my stomach feels sick, I get the body aches, uh, cold, hot, chills. Uh, everything hurts. Everything is in extremes. My emotions are in extremes. Uh, yeah, it sucks. I don't want to do anything. I just want to stay home and just stay in bed.	labels:That sounds awful. What do you do when that happens?
text:Yeah, I mean, I start to use, I get loaded.	labels:Okay. How else does injecting heroin impact your life?
text:Uh, you know, I get loaded and I-I can- I can function. I can go to work and, you know, do normal things, you know. Uh, I mean, there's been maybe just a couple of times where I wasn't feeling all that well, and I, uh, I was late a couple of times to work or it might overslept from the night before or whatever, but it's about it. Uh, I just want to avoid getting sick right now. That's my main priority.	labels:Yeah. You want to stay healthy. I'm curious, what do you like about using heroin?
text:Um, well, you know, I like the way it feels. Um, you know what I mean? When I shoot up my anxiety, goes away, my depression goes away. Uh, things that usually make life really difficult, uh, get a lot easier.	labels:And what about your use do you not like?
text:Uh, yeah. I mean, I think everybody who uses at least has some concern of overdosing on some level. Right? Uh, so that's something I'm concerned about is accidentally overdosing. And, uh, yeah, I mean, I don't want to get an infection in my arm, you know, just the usual things. I have a hard time hitting veins sometimes, and I gotta dig around a little bit and I would get worried about, you know, hitting something that I shouldn't or, you know, getting infections.	labels:Mm-hmm. So on one hand, using heroin feels like an escape from things you don't want to think about. On the other hand, it puts you at risk for an overdose in infections.
text:Yeah, that's right.	labels:So weighing what you like and don't like about your use, where do you want to go from here? What do you want to do differently?
text:I don't know.	labels:Well, some patients who inject heroin are interested in a medication called Suboxone. It reduces cravings, withdrawal symptoms without making you high. Some patients want information on how to inject drugs more safely or where to get new syringes. Other patients want to carry Naloxone which is a drug that can prevent one from overdosing.
text:Uh, are you talking about Narcan? Is that the same thing?	labels:Yes.
text:Yeah, I got some of that already. I got it from the needle exchange.	labels:Where do you keep it?
text:Uh, at home mostly.	labels:In case you see someone overdosing?
text:I mean, that's a concern, of course, right? Uh, I'm on the app just in case somebody nearby is OD-ing and I can get pinged. But no, mostly I just keep it in case I overdose, uh, and, uh, I'm realizing now I have it but I haven't told my roommate about it so—	labels:Your housemate may be willing to give you Narcan if they see you overdosing.
text:Yeah, that's what I'm thinking.	labels:Anything else you want to do about your use?
text:I would really like a little bit of information on, uh, injecting in my arm.	labels:Okay. I can email you some information on how to inject in a way that reduces the chance of infection and we also have behavioral health specialists in our clinic who can go over how to reduce harm with you. I bet the syringe exchange has similar resources too.
text:Okay.	labels:So it sounds like you have two goals right now. You want to tell your housemate about where you keep the Narcan in case you overdose and you want some information on how to inject safely?
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah.	labels:How confident are you to do these two things? On a scale of 1 to 10, 1 meaning not ready at all and 10 meaning very ready, what number would you pick?
text:I'd probably say 10.	labels:Okay. You're very ready. Why do you think you picked a 10 instead of a lower number like 8?
text:Well, uh, I don't want to have an overdose and I don't want to get an infection. Seems like easy things to do.	labels:What kind of plan could you put in place to make sure you meet these goals?
text:Um, well, I can talk to my housemate tomorrow night. I'm pretty sure that he doesn't work tomorrow night so he'll be around.	labels:That's great. And how do you want to get the information on injecting?
text:Uh, if you could email me that right now, that'd be great.	labels:Okay. I'd like to hear how your plan worked out for you if you're willing to come back for another appointment. I look forward to hearing about what worked for you and what was challenging say in four weeks.
text:Uh, yeah, yeah. It's fine. Let's do that.	labels:Great. I'll see you then.	episode:True
text:Pretty good.	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah. Um, I'm glad to be there.	labels:Yeah. What are you really glad about?
text:Uh, well, I'm glad to see my dog, he's very cute, and it just feels good to be home.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah. And my garden is coming along, and my neighbors have stuff-- It's-it's good. It's good to be home.	labels:I know, I-I understand that it was really-- That was your goal. That was a really important thing for you to be able to get home and it sounds like you've been able to really en- enjoy parts of it, and I know you've been going to the- both the physical therapy and the Tai Chi and how's-how's that going?
text:Well, um. I-I didn't get- go to physical therapy this week, and the- or Tai Chi, actually.	labels:So, I'm wondering if something happened that that led you not to go. You look a little, um, down.
text:Yeah. Well, um. Actually, I-I had a little semi fall, I didn't fall down, I didn't fall down completely but I-I did-- I guess I still had the wobblies and I was hoping that the physical therapy and the Tai Chi would be- get me further along than it has, and I-I still don't have the balance. So, I'm thinking that maybe I was pushing too hard, that maybe I should cut back, you know, and kind of not try so hard to-to keep moving like that.	labels:Mm. So you've been working really hard-
text:Yeah.	labels:-through this whole thing, you worked really hard to get home.
text:Yes.	labels:And you- you've continued to work really hard with both the physical therapy and the Tai Chi and taking care of your house and doing all those things.
text:Yeah.	labels:And you had this fall or semi-fall, and you're feeling like maybe- maybe you were pushing too hard?
text:Yeah, yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:So I'm-I'm-I cut back, and I-I don't know if I should really even continue the Tai Chi because it's-it's very demanding.	labels:Yeah, yeah. It's a lot of work.
text:Uh, it's beautiful and-and- but, um, yeah.	labels:What are you concerned about?
text:That I'll- that I'll fall again.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I'll really fall and hurt myself, and this way, if I don't move around so much, there's less chance that I will.	labels:Yeah, yeah, yeah. And- so you don't want to hurt yourself.
text:No.	labels:And what are- what are your concerns about-- It doesn't sound like you-you feel like you hurt yourself in this fall.
text:No, I didn't- it was just more scary, and it was like a-a signal that maybe I'm doing too much.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. And, what are you concerned will happen if-if you get hurt or if something-
text:Well, yeah, if I- if I lose my balance and fall down, I could- anything, you know, really get hurt, and then-then I wouldn't be able to be home anymore, and that's not what I want. I want to stay home. So I want to do what I have to do to-to-to stay home.	labels:And it feels like the only way that you can really stay safe and not fall is to not do anything to kind of just hunker down.
text:Yeah. [laughs] Yes, you've put it very well, hunker down-	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:Watch the TV and pet my dog. I-I, you know, not to that extreme, but yeah, I think- I think maybe, um, yeah, I was-was going- pushing too hard.	labels:Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
text:And I'm not sure about the Tai Chi anymore. I-I think the physical therapy, I can understand that, but I'm not so sure about the Tai Chi.	labels:Yeah. So the physical therapy is can- you can kind of still see that it's helping you to build your strength, which-
text:Yeah.	labels:-might have probably helped you break your fall this time.
text:Right, right.	labels:Um, I'm wondering what you remember about what-what Dr. Fields said about the Tai Chi in relationship to falls. Did she talk with you about that?
text:She did. Sh-- Yeah, that's right, that's right. She said that they did studies and that they found that it was really preventative. I think she's- I forget the-the percentage, but yeah, she was really enthusiastic and she does it herself.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. So you're feeling a little betrayed like it didn't-- "Look, and I did this, I was doing my Tai Chi, and all of a sudden, I- here, look at this, I fall."
text:That's a strong word, isn't it, "betrayed". Um, wow. A little, but-but I-I know, I know that it's true. I mean, my friend who does Tai Chi, she just- she loves it. Maybe it's just not for me, you know.	labels:Right.
text:But, um-	labels:So you're just starting to question a little bit about whether or not it might be what is useful and, you know, it-it does really come down to what works for you and what-wh-what you decide will help you stay safe. And I'd like to work with you as I know Dr. Fields would, to-to help build a plan that will help you feel as safe as you can in your home-
text:Right.	labels:-and to keep you there and to keep you feeling safe.
text:Yeah.	labels:Wh-what do you think about that?
text:Absolutely, that- because I don't- now I'm-I'm feeling-	labels:Yeah.
text:-really a little frightened that what if- what if I fall down and-and-and nobody comes around and I'm lying there for two days, you know. I may have heard about that.	labels:Yeah, right.
text:So, um, 'cause I am alone.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:So—	labels:So it really kinda strikes you that you're- that you're there alone and this could happen and--
text:Yeah.	labels:What thoughts do you have about that? What have you heard that others have done, or what are- what are- what thoughts do you have?
text:Well, the-- I think that there's some things that could be done to-- I know people who live in-in residence, they have a cord they can pull, but how do they get to the cord? Um, is there any- anything else that I could do just to communicate if-if-	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:-if something does happen?	labels:Yeah, yeah. I know what's worked for a lot of the-the folks that I've worked with is there's like- it's called a lifeline and they can wear it around their neck and it's hooked up and- so that if you need help, you can push the button.
text:I think I saw something like that on TV.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Is it- does it really work?	labels:It does really work.
text:'Cause you know that they sell so much stuff on TV, it's like you could- [crosstalk]	labels:Right. Right.
text:It's crazy, it's crazy.	labels:No, it is something that there's a couple of different of, uh, you know, a couple of different products out there, but it-it does- it can really help, uh, and-and it kind of gives- might give you this sense of security that you have at your fingertips.
text:Yeah. I guess so, feeling a little scared-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-you know, about that happening and-	labels:Yeah.
text:So, yeah, it's probably a signal to-to make some-some changes.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Like I don't wanna go back to the hospital, right? I really don't. Do I have to?	labels:We- we're gonna work with you to help you stay home as long as you possibly can and be safe.
text:Yeah.	labels:So what do you think that will take, um, because you're the one that really knows how you're feeling about in the house and how you're feeling about your safety. What do you think? The lifeline is a possibility, that's something you can consider.
text:That I will definitely- I definitely wanna do that.	labels:Mm.
text:I definitely wanna do that.	labels:Mm-hmm. What else do you think it would take for you to feel safe?
text:Well, I- maybe they-they-- When I first came home, they had somebody come and show me some things in-in the house, but maybe a refresher of that, and they told me that I should exercise and-and, um, I guess I could-- Maybe support, maybe I'm looking for-for maybe a buddy or something, some way that I could be reminded. I'm feeling a little, you know, I was moving along and things were feeling more positive, it's sort of like two steps forward and-	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:-one step back, but now it's to step forward and three steps back. [laughs]	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So, um, is there, yeah, like a support somehow? My daughter is very good and she calls me, but you know, she-she lives in Seattle, she lives-	labels:Yeah.
text:-far away.	labels:Yeah.
text:So- and I don't wanna impose on my neighbors or my friends.	labels:So you'd like to have a little bit more support-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-and a little bit more connection maybe that-
text:Yeah.	labels:-that-that, um, that has to happen. Would you like some suggestions about that?
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, so one of the things that- that we also have here, we-we have- we can get some case- what they call case management services and that might be someone who comes in and checks with you at home and helps you figure out some of the things that might need to be done like you were talking about, give you a little refresher on safety at home-
text:Right.	labels:-and, uh, and-and also might help you organize and connect up with other services that might be out there or do things, um, like that. I don't know. What it- how does that sound to you?
text:Yeah, that would be good. Do you think I should try to go back to the Tai Chi?	labels:Yes. I was going to say the other thing that I would say- that I would consider because the senior center, and I know you were really active in the senior center before-
text:Yes, great place.	labels:-and I'm wondering if you feel like there's support there. They have a lot of activities going on at the senior center that- and I- and I don't know what was in the Tai Chi included that might be- not only serve the purpose of the exercise but really help with some of that support.
text:Yeah. I guess I've kind of gone to the extreme. I tend to do that. [chuckles] Yeah. So, keep moving?	labels:Yeah. It sounds so crazy, doesn't it? Like the- it- when it feels like inside, what you're- what I'm hearing from you is that it feels like inside like moving is unsafe.
text:Yeah.	labels:And-and yet, we know we can't make perfect safety, but we know that the more you move and the more active that you stay, the less likely it is that you're going to fall and the more safe you're going to be.
text:Really?	labels:Yes.
text:Oh, okay.	labels:Can't prevent all of it-
text:Uh-huh.	labels:-but we can make it less likely.
text:Okay. Okay. Okay. I-I'm willing to start again, so to speak.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah. It's scary.	labels:Yeah. Takes a lot. Takes a lot. And you're the only one that'll- that can know what it is you're willing to work through that fear for.
text:Well, I'm willing to work through my fears and difficulties to be in my little house with my little dog and my little garden. I've been there for- since my husband and I got married, and that's where we lived, and I don't want to give it up yet.	labels:Mm-hmm. And that's a strong enough motivator for you and gives you enough purpose that you're willing to like kind of push through that fear that even though it's there and that, that sense of-
text:Yeah.	labels:-concern about being safe.
text:Yeah. I-	labels:Yeah.
text:-I-I am. And I feel like I have some help.	labels:Yeah. Yeah. Well, we can definitely talk about it when you come in again like-
text:Okay.	labels:-again, and-and-
text:So, am I being a baby?	labels:Not at all.
text:Okay.	labels:Not being a baby. This is a pretty normal- this is-
text:Really?	labels:-very normal. Absolutely. It's an absolutely normal thing to feel that, and especially when you've suffered something that you have and suffered to it, the stroke and the trying to get rehabbed and trying to find a way to get back home and going through the wobblies, this is perfectly normal.
text:Really?	labels:Yes. And actually, you-you have really demonstrated to me anyway, a lot of strength and courage because you have continued to persevere and work through this and not everybody does. And you have found a way to get home and you seem really committed to staying home. So you-you've got a lot of strength there that you're working with.
text:Thank you. Thank you.	labels:And we can work together to make sure that-- And-and Dr. Fields too, I know, is very interested in that. We can work together to do what we can to keep you there.
text:Well, and she- she's not going to throw me back into the hospital?	labels:Not yet.
text:Not yet? [laughs] Okay. Yeah. I was sort of- I-I was sort of hesitant to tell you-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-about-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-this, but, um, uh, I'm sort of glad I did. I'm very glad I did.	labels:I'm really glad you did too. I really appreciate it because that's the only way that we can work together-
text:Yeah.	labels:- to help you feel safer. And I hope you're going away home today feeling safer.
text:Yeah. So the-the caseworker is gonna be able to come and refresh-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-me?	labels:We'll get you hooked up.
text:And-and that's-- Yeah.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I mean, that alone, to know that I have communication that I w- that was my biggest fear that something-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-would happen and I wouldn't have any-	labels:Mm.
text:-any way to tell anybody.	labels:Good. Well, you've got some good plans and we'll go check it out and make sure they happen.
text:Okay.	labels:All right. Thanks.	episode:True
text:Yeah?	labels:Uh, I'm here to talk to you about, uh, your cholesterol and the, um, medicine your doctor prescribed.
text:Uh, I talked with my doctor about my medicine. That's his job.	labels:But well, it's my job too, uh, to-to help you understand how to use your medicine and, uh, give you information about getting the most benefits from it.
text:Well, to be honest with you, I'm not even certain I'm going to take the medicine. Now, I know I got high cholesterol, I've got to get that down, but on the other hand, this medicine can cause some severe muscle weakness and I just can't afford that. I'm a truck driver and I haul those heavy boxes in on the dollies and I just can't afford that, so you know.	labels:So your-your-your doctor told you that if your cholesterol remains elevated, you're at risk of stroke or heart attack?
text:Yeah, down the line, but-	labels:Okay. Well, the-the side effect is something that's very, very rare, it's not really something you need to worry about, and the risk of stroke or heart attack is much worse.
text:Well, right now it's the muscle weakness that-that I'm concerned about, and that's, uh, you know, that's the present, uh, I've got to do my job.	labels:Well, I-I-I understand that. Um, but like I said, it's very rare. If you feel some muscle weakness, you'll let your doctor know. It's not permanent, okay? Yeah, it won't get to the blood- it won't get to the point where it affects your job—
text:Well, you know- why don't you just give me the medicine, I'll take it home and I'll think about it? But you know, I'm worried about my job.	labels:You- you really need to take it, and-and like I said, the-the muscle weakness is rare. If you feel muscle weakness, just let your doctor know. He can take you off or switch. It's not permanent.
text:Sure. Fine. Just—	labels:It's-it's not permanent.
text:Whatever.	labels:Okay? So a stroke or heart attack is much worse, so make sure you go ahead and pick up your medicine as you're on your way out and, uh, one-one every day to get your cholesterol down.
text:Okay, sure. Fine.	labels:Okay.	episode:True
text:Hi.	labels:Hi. You were saying over the phone, uh, you want to talk about exercise?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay, alright. Where would you like to start with that?
text:Well, I'm, uh, I-I used to work out pretty good. I-I would go to the gym several times a week. I had kind of a schedule, um—	labels:That's really a lot. Very good.
text:Yeah, well, you know, it really-- At-at one time, I was running-- I ran a half marathon. I was really into it, and, uh--.	labels:Wow.
text:Well, and I-- But I was working at a different company, where I had a little bit different schedule, a little more free time than I have now, so I just don't have the time like I used to.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And I-- And really, it's kind of an excuse, I guess, cause I-I could probably make the time, but it's-it's easier to just keep working or-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-just being in bed or whatever.	labels:But that goal of the half-marathon, you know, it's really important that you were willing to put all the time into getting ready for it, which, from what I've heard from other people, is almost like a job in and of itself.
text:I-it was. A-and it was huge for me cause I'd never really been a runner, you know, but it-it was very motivating, and-and—	labels:What'd you like about it?
text:I don't know. I guess there's kind of an adrenaline rush to it. Kinda almost like, you know, uh, kind of a high, I guess.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:So yeah-- That's-- I-I really enjoyed it. And I-I liked the feeling that I was doing something good for myself. I liked that, too. I-it kind of-- It so-- It gave me a little bit of self-esteem, I guess.	labels:I-it a-almost, um, feels like you identified as being a runner, like an athlete?
text:I-I subscribed to the magazine a while.	labels:Do you really?
text:I did.	labels:[unintelligible 00:01:40]
text:I let-- I lit it on fire but I-	labels:Okay.
text:-I did burn for a time.	labels:Got into the culture?
text:I got into the whole culture. I was-- I-I felt as good as I’ve felt in many, many years. And now I’ve kind of let that all slide, and-- Well, I had a foot injury, too, which kind of started the whole problem.	labels:Okay, alright. Cause it’s tough, it's really, it is. I mean I’ve, um, I’m sure you’ve been told before by whomever, uh, diagnosed your foot injury, but if not, let me know if it gets so tough on your body [unintelligible 00:02:10] let me know. So--
text:It-it is. And I-- it-it may be why I can’t really run again, but I can certainly, you know, ride a stationary bike-	labels:Okay.
text:-and do all the other things in a gym that you can do when you’re not running, so, it just nakes you to [unintelligible 00:02:23]	labels:Oh, and yet and at the same time you know your body well enough, and you-you’re willing to pay attention to your doctor’s advice about the running, right now, for you, not the best thing. Um, so, riding a stationary bike. Um, what else do you like to do that's cardiovascular?
text:Um, well, um, I like-- The bike is pretty good. Uh, even the uh, you know, the kind of a rolling machine is okay. And the uh, the elliptical. Any of that’s fine. I-I really don’t, uh-- I don’t dislike any of it. Kind of once you get into the rhythm, yeah, it’s fine	labels:If you were to pick one of those, which one do you enjoy the most, um, would be most likely to do?
text:Probably the elliptical.	labels:The elliptical. Okay. Yeah. [unintelligible 00:03:07] like kind of almost like running.
text:Well, it is.	labels:[chuckles].
text:It is without any of the impact, so it is true.	labels:Okay. And-and what do you- do you-- Some folks, you know, [unintelligible 00:03:18] put on music, kind of- kind of.
text:Yeah, I do headphones.	labels:Yeah.
text:I got my headphones, and I got my, uh, kind of [unintelligible 00:03:24], if you know what I mean	labels:Okay. Get your rocking out, running on the elliptical playlist.
text:Yeah	labels:And, um, so you were-- You said that you’ve been going several times a week, which is really an extraordinary number, I-I think it’s four, five times a week?
text:Yeah. I was going literally every other day, you know. And then, some days I would, you know, I’d run, and I’d go to the gym the next day, so I would-- I was very-- I don’t really feel it necessary to get back to that level, but I need to do something cause I’m doing nothing right now.	labels:Nothing. Okay.
text:I should-- Or next to nothing. I walk to the grocery store or whatever’s handy when I have time, but yeah.	labels:So what ideas do you have about initially just getting started, and what-what would you do [unintelligible 00:04:13] ?
text:Well, if I could just get myself over there once, 'cause usually that’s the hardest thing. It’s just going there. So I think that's-- You know, I’ve thought about it a little bit, I think I just need to make that first trip over there and just kind of to take it easy that first time. Just show up 'cause I think that’s really what I need to do. I justt need to go over there.	labels:What would help you do that?
text:Um, knowing that my schedule isn’t gonna be too crazy that day where I could spare an hour or so, and-and just go do it.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And then I-- [unintelligible 00:04:41] kinda nice [unintelligible 00:4:42] gonna be troublesome.	labels:[unintelligible 00:04:45]?
text:Um, I don’t know. I think- I think the time has just been the biggest thing, you know, and-and I-I guess the motivation really hasn’t been there. I mean, you know, it’s not like- I don’t really have a goal. I don’t really have a, you know I don't, other than maybe reducing my waistline, you know, I don't really have a-a set number like I'm gonna run a marathon and you know.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:You know, so I think the just running off the playlist. I-I guess maybe if I made a goal would helped too.	labels:Mm-hmm- mm-hmm. So that-that-that half marathon was, uh, a very specific concrete thing and you could envision yourself, and you're ready for it and the day of and all that kinda stuff.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um.
text:Plus there's people who have done that countless times and you can go read what their-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-regimen was so you get feedback too. And then [unintelligible 00:05:37] did this from this day and so on.	labels:So sometimes-- almost sounds like, um, your feedback would be, uh, useful to you. Like some immediate feedback in terms of like, um, like [inaudible 00:05:53]
text:Yeah. Maybe.	labels:[inaudible 00:05:55]
text:That might not be be a bad idea. [inaudible 00:05:59]	labels:[inaudible 00:06:01]
labels:-somebody there and, you know, hooking up with somebody.	text:I think that'd be great. I-I never have really found anybody that like to exercise with the pace that I wanted to. They were all either going way too fast or not even moving at all.
labels:Okay.	text:So it's kinda hard to meet up with somebody that can kind of maybe kind of give you a push [unintelligible 00:06:38]-
labels:Okay.	text:-might be a challenge.
labels:There might be something [unintelligible 00:06:43] because you're such a social guy. And so to be able to be exercising and be talking and enjoying yourself- you like the music too, right?	text:Yeah, that's right, well I-
labels:And if you arrange to meet somebody there, you're very good at, uh, you know, uh, keeping the agreement.	text:Okay, that's a great idea I hadn't thought of that-that's- I hadn't really, uh, I-I kinda dismissed that early on, I hadn't really even considered that, yeah.
labels:And in for right now it just be, you'll be happy with getting there one time.	text:If I could get there-- I know if I could get there-- if I could pick, you know, uh, these are the days I'm going to go to the gym and I know these things last time.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:So if I- if I could-- I mean, I wanna get there three times a week.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:I wanna get there on Saturdays or Sundays and Tuesdays and Fridays, or something like that, then I could probably [unintelligible 00:07:34]
labels:And days that you know of on your less rigorous schedule that you're more likely to succeed [unintelligible 00:07:40] I really like how you're picking like three days a week instead of some days a week.	text:Right, yeah. Well, it's just not-
labels:Very clear you understand the whole idea of giving yourself a day off in between.	text:Oh yeah, yeah, it doesn't do any good to just try to injure your- injure yourself especially when you're a bit normal like me.
labels:Okay, yeah, I know that, yeah, yeah. Okay, so. So, um, so are you sure you wanna try to start out with the- that initial [unintelligible 00:08:07]	text:You gotta get over there.
labels:When you find someone to go with, great, if not, you get your own [unintelligible 00:08:12] your own music and uh, I'll be- I'll be trying just to-to see um, what is like for you, having actually done that [unintelligible 00:08:20]	text:Very good.
labels:Yeah, okay.	text:Thank you.
labels:Thanks.	text:All right, bye-bye.	episode:True
text:Well, it was raining. I didn't want my science fair project to get wet. I knew my parents were—	labels:Science fair project or not, don't you know what happens when someone drives under the influence of marijuana or alcohol? It's bad. They can wreck the car, you can lose your life. I thought you were smart, you're taking AP classes, you wanna get into a Ivy League school. This is not the way you do that.
text:It really wasn't that big of a deal.	labels:It's a big deal. You can't drink either. You're 16. The drinking age is 21. I think you know that. You could get into an auto crash. Uh, I just wanted you to hear this. I don't' tolerate it as a doctor drinking or driving with somebody who's under the influence, and if you do it again, I'm gonna tell your parents.
labels:Yeah.	text:Um, another thing-- Wait, what, I had something, it's just [inaudible 00:00:03] that I wanted to ask you, um, now a lot of my friends have quit smoking. They're getting like ostracized, but, you know, I tend to, like, gravitate, you know, towards-- Like my ex-husband smokes, you know-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-so I find it like acceptable in that regard.
labels:You bond other smokers.	text:Mm-hmm, yeah.
labels:That's very common. I mean, you go where you know, um, no one's gonna look down on you.	text:Yeah.
labels:And you're instant friends.	text:Yeah, we share-- "Okay, oh, a smoker, let's go out and have a smoke together," yeah.
labels:And now a total stranger will give you a cigarette-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-whereas like, you can't go up to him and say, "Hey, can I have some of your McDonald's French fries," and take them out—	text:I like that piece of jewelry, can I? [laughs]
labels:Right, yeah, but with cigarettes, there is a sharing. You don't see that with any other drugs?	text:Right. Right, yeah. You can't have my stash. [laughs]
labels:You can't, no, not one of mine. So, um when are you thinking you might want to do this?	text:Um, you know, I guess I'll have to like, you know, get all of my information together.
labels:Okay. Do your homework.	text:Right, do my homework and set up my like to have everything available to me.
labels:Okay.	text:And then maybe set up another appointment with you.
labels:Okay.	text:And maybe I don't know if-if that's like something that you'd be, you know, willing to do with me is to- help me set a date.
labels:Sure.	text:And then you know, the next time I see, see progress, or maybe write-- have like a diary or something, I don't know.
labels:Okay. Yeah, no, all those things are good. I mean, I think you know, the will- picking a quit date has been found to be really effective. And, um, uh, I know you had talked earlier and then we'll end in just a couple minutes, but about, you know, like, the willingness or the readiness and most-- a lot of people, a lot of my clients have shared with me that when they woke up that morning, they truly had no idea that was going to be their last cigarette.	text:Oh, really? So they didn't have an exact date, they just decided.
labels:No. Or- or some of them didn't have an exact date, but m-more importantly, was they-they just didn't know that was the day.	text:Oh, they didn't realize-- They didn't look at the calendar.
labels:Right, right. It's just like you-you-you-- Some people pick a quit date, like January 1st is still the most popular quit date—	text:And-and wait, I'm sorry, but—
labels:There's a smoke update coming up.	text:Oh, yeah. [crosstalk] And you know what I've never done that.
labels:It's for the cancer society.	text:That's coming up in November-
labels:Yeah.	text:-that's cool I'll have to find out about that.
labels:Yeah.	text:Because it's like people who will start and say, "I'm going to stop drinking at New Year's Eve. After midnight, I'm not gonna drink."
labels:Yeah.	text:That seems to be like, uh, a false setting up, you know, like, come on.
labels:Actually, you would be amazed how many people do it.	text:Really?
labels:Yeah, yeah, they really do, and smokers. Yeah, and drinkers, they do, yes. Yeah.	text:Or, like, you know, setting up-- but what is that that they say? Um, you know, like, it's- it's the terminology, you know, with all the anxiety and letting go, you know, like I'm gonna [crosstalk].
labels:Like a new beginning.	text:Yeah. Uh-huh, uh-huh. Yeah.
labels:So, for you, it's your, you know, it sounds like you really want to be prepared.	text:Right, right.
labels:And yet, on some level, you know, that it's gonna be a lot of hard work for you because of, you know, you've already known how anxious you get about a stash-	text:Right.
labels:So if you have a stash Nicorette gum if you decide to use it, I mean, you'd have to have other stashes, you know.	text:Yeah, and you know, another thing, uh, uh, you know, it's so so bang, but the weight gain is like—
labels:That worries you?	text:Uh-huh.
labels:Yeah. So, so if-if your doctor says it's okay with the Wellbutrin, one-- uh, we see very little if any weight gain-	text:Oh, really?
labels:-with the Wellbutrin, yes.	text:Oh, that's awesome, to know too.
labels:Yeah. And, um, the same with the Nicorette gum, because it- nicotine is an appetite suppressant.	text:Right, right. Just like [inaudible 00:04:06] Or your chocolate and all that.
labels:Yeah.	text:So just switching my addiction. [laughs]
labels:If you will. And that's if you decide you want to try a replacement therapy and that's what we call it and it-it kind of sounds from what you've described with your fear about you know, what it would be like of the withdrawal and everything like that. W-why you don't have to do it that way, you don't have to go cold-cold turkey.	text:Yeah, God, I don't think I could.
labels:Yeah.	text:You know, I mean like I said three days was like-
labels:Yeah.	text:-three years, and all I could think about I was like obsessing about it.
labels:Yes. Yeah, yeah. So I think that- I think, I'm just a really big advocate of w-whatever is gonna enhance the quality and the length of your life. And if somebody becomes addicted to nicotine go- gum, God bless them. They're still gonna live longer, you know what I mean?	text:Yeah, yeah.
labels:So—	text:Yeah. That's true.
labels:So, we'll do that so we'll-we'll talk about the hypnosis a little bit more, you know, you'll talk to your doc. Um, you'll do your research, you know, about programs and stuff, I'll give you any information I have and we'll take it from there. But it's sounding like the quit date might be coming up fairly-- like within the next two, three months.	text:Okay.
labels:I, uh, mean that's up to you.	text:Yeah. And I mean and that's-that's a reasonable thing- [crosstalk]
labels:You get to decide.	text:-I don't feel like I'm like you know, it's gonna be-- I think gradually getting my- wrapping my brain around it will help, you know, before I just do, you know.
labels:Yeah. Is it appealing the thought of quitting with a group at the same time?	text:You know, I always love, um, I've been in other group therapies-
labels:Uh-huh.	text:-and the feedback is really nice and the support-
labels:Okay, yeah.	text:-system is really good.
labels:Okay. So, that really sounds like something we can do.	text:Yeah.
labels:So, that would be can- the Cancer Society. So, we can look into that.	text:All right, great. Good. Great.
labels:All right. Well, I appreciate you coming in. We'll set up another appointment and, um, get our resources together. We'll take it from there and—	text:And thank you for all the information. I appreciate it.
labels:Oh, you're welcome. My pleasure, thank you.	text:Thank you.	episode:True
text:Well, I remember you. Yeah, we met once before.	labels:Yes, I think when you were in last time.
text:Yeah.	labels:And I know that, uh, Dr. Fields talked with you last time about maybe trying a tai chi class to see how that would go, and I wanted to-to check in with you and see how tai chi went.
text:Well, I went once.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:Yeah and, um, it was very-very beautiful to see and the instructor was very nice, but I felt kind of self-conscious because I'm still in my walker.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:And I had to sit in the chair. I couldn't, you know, do what they were doing.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So, it's-- it was-- I simply felt self-conscious.	labels:Uh-huh. So, you thought it was beautiful and you liked the instructor, but you were a little self-conscious because you were in a chair?
text:A lot self-conscious.	labels:A lot self-conscious, uh-huh.
text:Yeah.	labels:What were you hoping to achieve with the, um, by going to tai chi?
text:Well, like Dr. Fields told me, it helps with balance, and I'm still having the wobblies. So, I was really hoping that I could get to the point where I could benefit from what they had to offer. Um, yeah, mostly my balance, mostly my balance.	labels:Uh-huh. So, you're hoping that it would help with balance, but you didn't see the- maybe the results you were looking for?
text:Not yet.	labels:Not yet.
text:Yeah.	labels:Uh-huh. What is your overall goal? What are you working towards?
text:I wanna go home.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:Yes, I really do.	labels:Mm-hmm, and what is it that's important to you about getting home?
text:[sighs] Everything. I want to be with my little dog.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:He's really so cute, and I miss my garden.	labels:Yeah.
text:And I just miss being independent, going to sleep when I want to sleep and getting up when I want to get up and-and, uh, cooking for myself. The independence. Sure I miss being independent.	labels:Uh-huh. So, you're wanting to get home to your dog, your garden, back to your life, your independence?
text:Yes.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:What do you think you need to do in order to be able to achieve that goal of getting home?
text:Well, they told me that I need to be able to walk down the hallway and back, even with the walker, being secure and not with the wobblies.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:And I haven't gotten there yet.	labels:And do you agree that that's what you need to do in order to be able to get home?
text:Yeah.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:I-I don't want to fall.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:I-I've had friends that had that happen. So, um, I-I agree a little, with some hesitation, but I do agree.	labels:Uh-huh, and tell me how your physical therapy is going?
text:Oh, it's better.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:It still hurts. It- it's-- I'm getting better. I'm-I'm getting better. It's not quite as painful.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah, so-	labels:So, it sounds like, um, you can see that you're making some progress in physical therapy-
text:Yes.	labels:-and that you were hoping that the tai chi would help you with the wobblies. Uh-huh?
text:Yeah.	labels:And so, are you wanting to go back to tai chi?
text:[sighs] Um, yes-yes I-I do because I-- my friend, I think I told you, really, really loves it and I just, I wish I could go back, and yes I do. I'm not making much sense, but I do.	labels:Uh-huh. I think it's important, um, that you know that you're the one who has to make the decision about whether or not tai chi works for you.
text:Oh, I don't really know yet after just one time.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:Yeah. It's-it's-- I can't make that-- It wouldn't be fair for me to say it does or doesn't. It didn't that one time, but you know.	labels:So, you haven't seen the results that you want yet-
text:Yeah.	labels:-but because Dr. Fields has recommended it and your friend has-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and it sounds like you like the instructor-
text:Yeah, I do.	labels:-it sounds like you'd like to try and give it another chance?
text:Yeah, I would.	labels:So, what has to happen in order for you to get to tai chi again?
text:Well, I'd have to make the arrangements again, that was a little complicated, and, um, I'd have to get my head straight about feeling self-conscious, because I-I know that nobody's really looking at me, but I have to convince myself.	labels:Uh-huh. Yeah.
text:Yeah, and the arrangement, arrangements a little complicated.	labels:Uh-huh. So, how confident are you on a scale of 1 to 10 with one being not at all confident and 10 being very confident that you can make the arrangements in order to get to tai chi.
text:That I can make the arrangement?	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Five.	labels:Five.
text:Yeah.	labels:Uh-huh, so-
text:I-I mean, I know I can, but it's really difficult.	labels:Uh-huh. What is it that makes it a five instead of a one, no confidence?
text:That I'm doing it by myself.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And I would really fe-- If I could have some sup-- Like if somebody could help me do it.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:My-my daughter can't visit that often and, um-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, in order for you to feel more confident, you would like some help in making those arrangements?
text:I would.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:I would.	labels:And is that something that your daughter can do for you?
text:Well, she's-- she could, but I'd have to wait at least a week.	labels:Okay. Um, so is that something that you'd like us to help you with?
text:I would.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:Yeah, yeah. Is that possible?	labels:Sure we can make those arrangements with the rehab center. They have a van-
text:Uh-huh.	labels:-and-and they've done this for other patients so we can certainly make those arrangements if you'd like.
text:That would- that would be good. And then as far as feeling self-confident, I'd have to do that myself.	labels:Okay. So, are there any other barriers or obstacles in the way to you getting to tai chi?
text:Um, I can't think of any.	labels:Okay.
text:That's-that's the main thing-	labels:All right.
text:-the arrangements.	labels:Well, it sounds like you can see that you're making some progress in your physical therapy.
text:Yes.	labels:And that you're wanting to give tai chi another chance, and that if we can help make arrangements for you to get there with the van to the rehab center, that you'll give it another chance.
text:That's-- Yeah.	labels:Okay.
text:That's true.	labels:Well, um, before you leave today, we'll go ahead and, um, I'll call the rehab center and make those arrangements.
text:You would?	labels:Sure. I'm-I'm happy to do that.
text:That would really help.	labels:And then when you come back in, I know you've got another follow up appointment with Dr. Fields, I'd like to check back with you then and see how class went the second time.
text:Okay.	labels:All right.
text:Yeah. Thank you.	labels:Well, thank you very much for coming in today Mrs. Smith and I look forward to hearing about the progress that you're making.
text:I'm good, thanks.	labels:Good. Why don't you fill me in on what's been going on since I saw you last?
text:Um, I guess everything's fine. I think my caseworker mentioned something about community service that I have to do or something. I don't know.	labels:Okay.
text:I'm not sure of that.	labels:So she talked to you a little bit about it, but it sounds like you're kind of unsure exactly the details.
text:Yeah, I know that she said I have to get so many hours in, but I don't- I don't know. I kind of was half-listening.	labels:Okay. So why don't you tell me what you remember from having your conversation with your case manager? What do you know so far about community service?
text:I know that I have to get it done by the end of my probation, except I forgot like how many hours or if I'm supposed to find it or someone else is gonna find it for me or I-I told you I'm confused.	labels:Okay, gotcha. So, you know, that it needs to get done-
labels:Yes.-you know, you have till the end of your probation-	text:Yes.
labels:-but you're a little fuzzy on the details.	text:Exactly, yeah.
labels:Okay. Um, so maybe if it's okay with you, I can share with you some of, um, the requirements, maybe go over the details a little bit more.	text:Yeah, yeah.
labels:Is that all right?	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Okay, great. Um, so with your community service I know you've got 25 hours left to do, um, so that does need to get done by the end of your probation, and your case manager is a really great resource to help you find a place where you can do it. So I know in the past some clients have done their community service at food pantries or shelters, or anywhere in the community that's not, you know, a family member or a friend. Um, the urban ecology center is a really great place. You can kind of work outside, work with younger kids. Do any of those options seem like a fit that you might be interested in?	text:Um, yeah, I just, so I still have to find the community service hours myself?
labels:So that's something that you can work with your case manager on.	text:Okay.
labels:So, um, that's something you can absolutely ask her or quest- or me some questions about, but they'll be able to come and bring you some options-	text:Okay.
labels:-of places that you can work with, some phone numbers to call.	text:Okay.
labels:And that is something that we'd kinda like to see you do on your own, but if you're really feeling like you're struggling, those are phone calls that either you and I can make together or you and your case manager can make together.	text:Okay, so I would do that. And then do you know, can I get all the 24 hours in in like a weekend or how does that work?
labels:Well, I mean, 24 hours in a weekend sounds to me like it might be a lot of time.	text:[unintelligible 00:02:20]
labels:I can- I can hear that you are really eager to just get it finished-	text:Oh, yeah.
labels:-and get it out of the way. Maybe I know in the past it's been helpful for some other clients to sit down and take a calendar and just mark out, okay, I'm gonna do five hours this day, I'm gonna do three hours this day, two hours of this day. Does that sound like something that might be helpful for you?	text:Yeah, I think, just to keep track of it better.
labels:Okay.	text:I think it's a good idea.
labels:And then, you know, it might be, I definitely think that if you're committed and it's summer break, it's something you could easily get done in a week.	text:Okay.
labels:What other questions do you have for me about community service?	text:I think that's it. I think I was just worried about who was gonna do it for me, but I know I have to, I guess, do it myself and that 25 hours has to be done. It seems like that's the time I'd have to get done.
labels:Yup, absolutely.	text:Okay.
labels:But you know that if you have any more questions, you can always come to me or your case manager and we're here for- to be a support for you.	text:All right, thank you.
text:Definitely.	labels:And do you mind if we talk about a screening form that you filled out earlier today on drug use?
text:Okay.	labels:Let's take a look. It says that on occasion you use, uh, drugs other than medical reasons. Which drugs do you use?
text:I do some meth.	labels:Snort it, smoke it?
text:Snort it, always snort it.	labels:Don't inject it?
text:Mm-mm.	labels:Use any other drugs?
text:Just, you know, some alcohol.	labels:And, uh, um, you do this how often?
text:Meth?	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um, two, three times a month.	labels:So you're an occasional meth user. You don't use very often?
text:Right.	labels:Only snort it?
text:Right.	labels:Well, as I think you know, Methamphetamine use is associated with some health risks. And the amount that you're using it-it puts you in a category that we consider a risky user. And that contrasts with someone who it says addicted, um, someone who's a heavy user but it's not in a healthy category because people who use Methamphetamine tend to run to a number of consequences. And actually one of them is, um, sexually transmitted diseases. Do you suppose that your STD might be associated with your Methamphetamine use?
text:Yeah, it could be because, uh, I was high when I had unprotected sex and I would not do that if I were not high.	labels:So you're normally very careful and you use protection when you have sex?
text:Definitely, yeah.	labels:And it seems to you that methamphetamine may have clouded your judgment?
text:Yeah.	labels:Anything else happening with Methamphetamine in your life? Is it affecting you in any way?
text:No, I mean, no. I mean, like I said, I only do it in clubs, you know, with my friends, uh, two or three times a month at-at the most. Um, uh, I don't think it's really having other impacts. But I'm-I'm concerned about this one. I never expected to get gonorrhea.	labels:Yeah, you know, I'm concerned bout it too and I'd actually recommend that you stop using Methamphetamine altogether. And, um, there-there are a lot of reasons for this but that's-that's would be my recommendation.
text:I-I understand but it's I think that would be a hard thing for me to do. You know, I mean, I know I should but, I mean, that's like my whole social life. You know, I mean, all my friends go to these clubs. That's where- that's where I see them. You know, that's my sex life basically and, uh, meth is just- it's just a part of it. You know, I mean, everyone is doing it there. You know, so it's while I would like to stop it's-it's kind of hard to think about doing that right away.	labels:So you recognize Methamphetamine has some problems associated with it and you also on the balance see that a lot of your social life and your sex life involves Methamphetamine, it would be difficult to quit using?
text:Yeah, I don't think it would be easy but I'm not saying that I'm not willing to try.	labels:Well, if you were to, um, consider how ready you are to stop using Methamphetamine completely-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-with zero being not ready at all-
text:Mm.	labels:-and 10 being ready, where would you put yourself?
text:Uh, three.	labels:Why not a one or a two?
text:I mean, this has been really uncomfortable, you know, gonorrhea is a really bad experience. And, uM, I know I don't think the same, you know, when I'm- when I'm on it. And, uh, I mean, what I have is bad enough, I could easily get AIDS. I could get HIV the same way. So that scares me a lot. That's why it's higher than a one or two.	labels:Are there any other concerns that you have about Methamphetamine?
text:Well, I do just snort it but you don't know what it's cut with, you know, there could be something, you know. It could be really bad, um, if it was cut with something dangerous or something. I mean, I-I worry about that sometimes.	labels:Mm, so when I was first talking to you, I thought that you'd have a very, um, really not much interest in not stoping using Methamphetamine but it sounds like you have a number of reasons why you really would like to stop using Methamphetamine. And that is, um, that it might be cut with something else, um, you could get another ST- STD including HIV.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, what do you think would make it easier for you to cut down or quit using Methamphetamine?
text:Something else to do on weekends, you know, different social life.	labels:How could you get a different social life?
text:It's the hard thing, I mean, almost everybody I know uses it.	labels:Is there anyone in your life who doesn't use methamphetamine?
text:My sister.	labels:Does she-- Have you talked to her about your meth use?
text:I haven't really talked to her about it. I think she knows it I do it sometimes. I mean, we're pretty close. I think I could talk to her about it, and I think she would probably help.	labels:So on the one hand, it would be difficult to quit using Methamphetamine because there are so many positives that you get from using it. But on the other, there are reasons why you want to quit using methamphetamine.
text:Yes.	labels:And there's some things that you might be able to do that would make it easier to not use methamphetamine including talking to your sister and getting some support.
text:Yes.	labels:Well, great. I recommend that you not use Methamphetamine at all but what you do is up to you.
text:Okay.	labels:I could see you again in a month. Would that work out for you?
text:Thank you.	labels:Nice to meet you.
text:Yeah, you too.	labels:And you found us okay?
text:Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.	labels:Alright.
text:Yeah. Yeah. pretty straightforward-	labels:Yeah
text:-always good.	labels:Have you been here before?
text:No. No, not at all.	labels:Mm. Okay. Alright. Well, um, I know a little about why you're here today-
text:Yeah.	labels:-um, but it's great to see you, and so maybe a good point to start with is, tell me why you're here.
text:Sure. Um, I guess, you know, maybe two or three weeks ago, I had sort of like this group of friends come around to my place, and um, you know, they-they were sort of saying that it was just like a night to hang out and watch DVDs and stuff, and then they sort of sat me down and were like, "You know, maybe you need to get a bit of help for, you know, drug stuff." Then, you know, I was sort of like, "Well, mm." And I was quite annoyed by that at first, but I-I suppose, you know, I thought about it for a bit and then I was like, "Well, I guess it can't hurt to talk to someone about it, maybe."	labels:Right.
text:Yeah.	labels:And that's led you to being here today?
text:Yeah.	labels:Alright.
text:Yeah. I just sort of did a bit of search on the internet and stuff and just read about this place, so I just thought I'll—	labels:Right. So it sounds like you thought there was something that, uh, that you needed to look at, something that was concerning you?
text:Yeah, I guess. I-I suppose I hadn't really thought about it till they sat me down, and you know- I mean I could, uh, I could understand a little bit of where they were coming from, so yeah, I thought I'd—	labels:They were concerned for you?
text:Yeah.	labels:Alright.
text:Yeah. Yeah, which kind of was a bit of a sh-shock, I suppose.	labels:You were surprised?
text:Yeah. Yeah, 'cause, you know, I don't know. You know, you see on movies when people sort of intervene or say, "You know, you need to go and get help." And then-- I don't know. Like you know those characters and, they-they do need help, you know-	labels:Yep.
text:-because they're fucked.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And you kind of go, "Woah. That's not me." So it's about am I—	labels:You're not sure that applies to you?
text:Yeah, or well, not to that extent, you know what I mean? Like, I-I would-- l didn't think I was at anywhere near a point that I would need to be sat down and intervened with-	labels:Okay.
text:-if you know what I mean.	labels:Alright.
text:I suppose.	labels:I'm trying to understand you so far, something's concerning you and something's concerning your friends-
text:Yeah.	labels:-but you're not sure whether it's- whether-- just how bad it is or- and you're just wanting to check that out?
text:Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, 'cause, I mean, you know, they are my friends and-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- you know, I'm not gonna be so narrow-minded as to say for sure that, you know, they're entirely wrong 'cause there's a big group of them, you know? And they do care, so obviously, there's something there that I might have overlooked. But on the other hand, I'm sort of like, "Well, was it that bad?" And you know, "Was that- was that really necessary?" But I, you know, I thought I'd give them the benefit of the doubt and-	labels:Yeah.
text:-and just check it up, yep.	labels:Because they care about you and-and you respect what they say, and you're wondering whether something about what they're saying may be right, but let's check that out a bit?
text:Yeah, pretty right.	labels:Alright.
text:Yeah.	labels:Well, let's do some checking out.
text:Okay, cool.	labels:So tell me a little bit about what you're doing, what is- what is the concern that they are raising.
text:Um, dr-drugs, I guess.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Mm, yeah. Sort of kind of do a bit of P now and again-	labels:Alright.
text:-and, um, I guess less often, I do a bit of, you know, I smoke a little bit and, um, party pills in the- in the weekend sometimes.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:Tell me a little bit about what now and again means, and-and-and how often.
text:Um, a couple of times a week maybe.	labels:Is this- is this with, uh, with the drug?
text:Yeah, yeah.	labels:This is meth you're talking about? A couple of times a week?
text:Mm-hmm, yeah. Yeah. So I guess when I put it that way, it does sound quite a lot, but it doesn't feel a lot, you know? If you know what I mean?	labels:Well, maybe, we c-- we can check that out to see whether-whether it's a lot or-- But maybe also importantly to-to discuss with you what the effects are and-and-and what your concerns are about it. But help me to understand a little bit more of what it's like for you. Tell me- tell me what are the things about your, uh, use of meth that you- that you've liked that you found good for you?
text:Right. Um, I suppose it's kind of hand-in-hand with just hanging out with, sort of, some new scene that I've-- Like, um, I moved to Auckland maybe three years ago.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And, um, I still live in Palmy and, so as you can imagine, it's sort of a bit different down there. And, um, kind of just when I first got here I was sorta introduced a little bit to, um, like do you know Family Bar on-on [unintelligible 00:06:49]?	labels:I know Family Bar, yes.
labels:So Auckland, coming to Auckland from Palmerston for you was-was like taking charge of something that you were going to look to make something different in your life?	text:Yeah, in-in a way. Although I wouldn't have been conscious of that really. I just sort of discovered it here. It's not like I came to Auckland looking for that kinda-
labels:Right.	text:-lift to get away from, um, you know parents mainly, and that kind of lifestyle, that Palmy sort of lifestyle. But then yeah, I discovered this other thing, um—
labels:Which you weren't aware of in Palmerston?	text:No.
labels:Okay.	text:No. I didn't really know. I guess you see sort of things like that in-in movies from America you know, but you don't really-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:- think that it would exist in your own country. Well, not if you grew up in Palmy.
labels:Palmerston. Mm-hmm.	text:Um, I don't mean to be mean about Palmy but, you know, it's just the different kinda attitude, I guess, kinda- this done-
labels:Yeah.	text:-to that sort of thing.
labels:It sounds like you're ready to move up to something that was different.	text:Yes-
labels:And-and you came-	text:-plus-
labels:-here to Auckland.	text:Yeah, yeah. I definitely wanted to get away from something. I didn't know what too, but then I arrived here and found this thing that was like actually, this was obviously, fate or whatever was pulling me to this thing-
labels:Alright.	text:-'cause-'cause like I found something in myself or something that was missing.
labels:And how does that feel for you now?	text:Um, now, I guess, now, I'm just a little used to it. [clears throat] When I first got here, I was like, "Wow, this is amazing." This is hard, I guess, but, you know, it's been three years now, so it's just kinda like I've gotten used to it.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:I mean, I guess, I'm, let's say I take it for granted but, um, yes, it's just comfortable now. And, um, it's just a sort of what I do really. Yeah, so, I guess that the drugs are linked to that, I suppose. It's j-- Well, it's just a part of it, I don't really think-- I didn't really differentiate it. It's just kinda, "Okay, I'm gonna go hang with my friends," and that sort of thing, you know, that Saturday, Friday night thing. And then it just happens really as part of that.
labels:So coming out, feeling-- being gay-	text:Yep.
labels:-being part of a gay culture here in Auckland, is feeling good-	text:Yeah.
labels:-for you?	text:Yeah.
labels:And at the same time, it's-it's linked closely with the- with the drug scene with the meth scene for you?	text:Yep.
labels:And you're not experiencing where these two things are separate? They just seem to be together more often than not?	text:Well, I guess, now, that I think about it, maybe it's sort of gone beyond that, maybe I didn't notice that.
labels:So—	text:I mean like I always-- Well, it's, you know it's kind of a thing that happens in the weekends but, I guess, sometimes in the weekdays. You know, I'll-I'll pretty much every weekend I'll have a big night, um, maybe two but sometimes, you know, in the weekdays like on a Tuesday or Wednesday or something if I just kinda feel like doing something then I might do that sometimes to see if someone else wants to come round and join me or, you know, occasionally by myself I might have a smoke by myself or something like that. And I guess that isn't entirely linked to that scene, I suppose.
labels:It just sounds like something's worrying you about that there's-there's a part link there but there's not a link and that-that maybe that the drugs is-is becoming a more important part in your life.	text:Mm. Maybe. I suppose I hadn't really thought about it-
labels:Okay.	text:-until recently.
labels:So something's changed recently?	text:Yeah. I suppose just since that kind of intervention thing or I started to give them the benefit of the doubt. And it's-
labels:Yeah.	text:-maybe noticing some things that I hadn't noticed but—
labels:Tell me about those things you're noticing that you hadn't noticed before.	text:Oh, I mean, e-even just now, you know, when you asked me how often.
labels:That surprised you?	text:Mm. S-surprised me to-to think about, you know, when there's stuff, and you don't really think about it, but then if someone asked you, you know, how often or-- and then you kind of have to quantify it, I suppose it kinda sound shocking, you know, if I- if I imagine myself sort of saying, "I do this, you know, a few times a week." It-it-
labels:Mm.	text:-sounds shocking. But to me it-it's- it doesn't feel that way, you know, that's kind of where that, where it kind of doesn't sit right. I, [clears throat] that's why I kind of got a bit miffed at my friends a little bit, or I dunno, a bit defensive there. 'Cause you know, it sounds a lot, but it doesn't feel out of control or anything, you know. It doesn't feel, I dunno, people that need to go and see therapists or whatever you kind of go, "Oh, they're an addict." You know. They-- Their health is really bad and they need urgent help right now quickly, Uh, well, at least that's kind of the-the feeling you get. And I don't feel that at all. I don't feel like it's a real urgent thing. So that-
labels:Alright.	text:-felt a bit weird.
labels:Okay.	text:Yeah.
labels:So you're worried a little bit about it and you're going to find out more about it, but you're-you're not gonna take on this notion of being a headache or anything as yet—	text:Yeah.
labels:Okay.	text:Definitely.
labels:So tell me then, um, Ricky, what- what's the other side of the good things that-that using meth or doing some smoking does for you? Is there a downside to it? Are there problems that you're experiencing?	text:Yep. Um. Uh, I suppose money is quite a big thing. Like, I used to have a lot more money sorta last year. I had a, quite a good job, like a, quite a regular acting job.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Um, and it was like quite a lot of money that la-last year. So it wasn't such a problem then. And I suppose I sort of blew that money a little bit. Um, so now I don't have that acting income coming in as frequently and I'm working in a cafe like a sort of part-time and it's not bringing in as much. So now it's kinda like, and sometimes I need to borrow a bit of money or sorta need a bit of help with the rent sometimes.
labels:Quite a lot's changed over the last year from—	text:Yeah. Yeah. A little bit.
labels:It doesn't sound like it was part of the plan.	text:No. But you know, that's the life of an actor, I suppose, ups and downs works and not works.
labels:Sure. [chuckling] It's not a secure profession-	text:No.
labels:-and it's-it's hard-	text:It's not.
labels:-it's hard. But is-is there, I just wonder, is there a connection at all between the-the-the-the acting and the meth use in terms of the effect of the meth use on your- on your ability to get work?	text:Hmm. Could have been a couple of auditions that I didn't do so well and as I could have 'cause of that.
labels:The drug may have had an effect on that?	text:Uh, maybe. Maybe it's just my general sort of state. Um,I dunno, sometimes I suppose just kind of weighs on my mind a little bit like, "What am I doing or why am I spending my money on this?" I mean, when it's happening, it's like, this is amazing.
labels:Hmm. Hmm.	text:You know am I-- You go in- you go into places, interesting places, but you know, I could just as well have saved that money and actually gone to interesting places I suppose. But I don't know. I wonder if it- if-if it's having an effect. I-I don't know. I can't say for sure, but maybe it's not so good for the face, I dunno. [crosstalk] Dunno if I look tired or-or run down or-
labels:Alright.	text:-or if I actually am tired or run down, I suppose. Again, this is things that I haven't really thought about-
labels:Alright.	text:-but now I'm starting to think about.
labels:Right. And they got questions too-	text:Yeah.
labels:-to ask are they—	text:Yeah.
labels:You're beginning to-to think about those things and-and-and what effect they may have on you.	text:Yeah.
labels:And the choices that you might have about it.	text:Yeah. Hmm.
labels:What else? Are the-the-the-the problem of around the use of money, you know, the choices that you make around money, and the meth use has taken up quite a lot of the money-	text:Yep.
labels:-over the last year and maybe also the effect on-on um, your job and being able-- maybe you're not auditioning as well as you might.	text:Yep.
labels:And maybe the effects um, also on-on your physical appearance. An interesting question around the effect of meth use on physical appearance.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Um, what-- are there any other problems? Any other things that-that are a bit of a downside to this?	text:Uh, I guess it's obviously having some sort of effect on my friends and my flatmates, 'cause, you know, they set me down and said, "Look you gotta-
labels:Yeah.	text:-look into this or else we can't hang out anymore."
labels:And that's a problem?	text:That would be a problem, yeah.
labels:Why?	text:If they didn't wanna hang out, well, then what have I got, I suppose?
labels:They're important.	text:Yeah. Yeah, and I mean part of it, yeah. Part of it I just wonder 'cause, you know, a lot of those friends that set me down are obviously the ones that are not part of that scene. I mean there were a couple there that-that are, but mostly they were the ones that sort of have always sorta been a bit judgy. You know, like when I first started all this stuff, you know. And clearly, there wasn't a problem like-- 'cause I used to be that guy as well you know, like, "No never do that 'cause it's bad," and then you try it the first time and you go, "Actually, it's not that bad." It's not the end of the world if you're sensible with it, then it's not gonna be, you know.
text:You have to take a stupid amount to do any kind of like, or, you know, to die or to end up in a hospital.	labels:YHmm.
text:So it's provided you don't-- you're not stupid with it. Then it's just a bit of fun but you can't really explain that to people who are-- have their walls up. So it's hard not to sit in this room full of people kind of going, "Oh, you know, you really should stop the drugs, they're bad." It's like, "Well actually, you don't know what you're talking about."	labels:Hmm. But Ricky, let me just check, 'cause I may got this wrong, just check with you that um, there are some friends that you've got who do use who are still concerned about you. Did I get that right from what you said earlier that-that those who are concerned about you and were part of this intervention some of them use.
text:Yep. Yeah, a couple.	labels:And you-- So they have their concerns and-and you are beginning to-to ask questions of this use as well and-
text:Yeah.	labels:-it's just that that we're gonna try and drill down a little more into just to pick up for you what-what you think might be going on and what you think might be some of the options for you.
text:Yep.	labels:And we're g- we're gonna leave labels all that kind of stuff aside 'cause, you know, I'm picking up from you that that's not what that's about.
text:Yep.	labels:I'm happy with that. What do you think will happen, what might happen if you can turn your-your uses- you're on now? What-what concerns do you have about not making any kind of change?
text:Um, well I suppose the acting thing is a really big concern.	labels:Alright.
text:'Cause I want that to be my job, you know. I'm fucking sick of cafes.	labels:This is gonna be your career. This is the career-
text:Yeah.	labels:-you want to make.
text:I'd like it to be, yeah.	labels:Mm-hmm. It's harder when you're trying to create your career, get that going. You gotta- you gotta be at your- at your top, top pitch.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah, 'cause I mean it's all you know, it's partly lacking and partly being at the right place at the right time. And if you're at the right place and at the right time and it is not on your game then there could have been a—	labels:Yeah, and-and maybe the meth use is-is compromising that.
text:Yeah, it could be.	labels:Hmm.
text:Yeah, and then I suppose also like money is linked into that as well, you know, I've-- I'm not doing as many courses and stuff as I used to be doing, 'cause it's, you know, don't have the money.	labels:Alright, so it's back to the money thing again which is-
text:Well, yeah, I mean, obviously I don't wanna keep pissing my flatmates off.	labels:Yeah. yeah.
text:You know, and it's not- it's not cool to not pay the rent, obviously. It's not something I'm happy with.	labels:That creates problems?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah, and I don't wanna be that person.	labels:Let's just come back to another thing, uh, that we were talking about a little bit earlier, and it's around your meth use as well and-and-and with your gay friends, with gay lifestyle. And-and that sounds like you're saying that-that-that when you party, when you go into the clubs, when you're being with friends that the meth use is always there?
text:Yeah.	labels:The-the availability of it is there.
text:Yeah.	labels:And everyone, most people are using.
text:Yeah. Not-not necessarily P or whatever but yeah most people are doing something. Yeah. I suppose yeah it's kind of part of that scene that there's not a huge like, you know, you go to normal bars and most people are just drunk and wasted and like spewing everywhere and stuff and whereas that's a different scene. Like, people drink but they don't drink to that excess but they take other things and have a good time. And, yeah.	labels:And it might be hard to be part of that scene and not to be using drugs?
text:Yeah. I mean there are people that do that. I suppose it-it would be hard. I-I haven't really thought about it, I suppose. That's all it is, all I've known that scene to be, you know, 'cause I'm quite new to it, you know-	labels:Right.
text:-so from the beginning it was always there.	labels:So there is a possibility that there are other parts of the scene that don't rely on drug use-
text:Yeah.	labels:-or particularly on-on meth use?
text:Oh yeah, well, they must be. I can't imagine everyone is there, I guess just the ma-majority or at least p-- the majority of people that I know, yeah.	labels:So that might be something that we can look at but later if you're interested in is maybe what are some of those other parts of the gay scene, whose still party and party medley, but when meth is not a- is not a dominant-
text:Yeah.	labels:-factor in that partying, and we- where-where there are, uh, uh, uh, gay groups that support people who-who are not wanting to be-- they have a lifestyle that is heavily weighted to drug use. So there are some options there to look at some other ideas if you're interested and we might look at that, for you to think about-
text:Yeah.	labels:-to consider, so it's not about giving up anything, it's not about huge major changes, it's about how can I improve the situation.
text:Yep. Yeah.	labels:It's what I'm hearing you saying bring-- be a little bit more in control of what's-what's going on for me.
text:Yep.	labels:So that I can pursue that plan.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:What could be a- what could be a first step towards that?
text:Well, [coughs] I must say I was a bit, um, you know, at the start when I was sort of saying I, you know, this is how often I do it and then I found myself talking about the kind of the weekday stuff I kinda took myself back a bit there. I suppose, you know, on a Wednesday by yourself like it doesn't sound that good.	labels:So that needs some thinking about, doesn't it?
text:Yeah.	labels:As to what-
text:Yeah.	labels:-what would work for you-
text:Mm.	labels:-as an alternative.
text:Yeah. Yeah, but I think you're right about, just something to look forward to, because it's that midweek slump, you know. So far away till people will be in their place where they can-	labels:Yeah.
text:-hang out and have a good time.	labels:Yeah. Yeah. And there are things that have gotta work for you, so that-
text:Yeah.	labels:-that's your ideas on there which are really important. But again there are some options, that if you wanted to look at, you know, just to at least be able to know what they are.
text:Yeah.	labels:Because there are clubs and there are groups and there are all kinds of things that meet through the week.
text:Yeah.	labels:And so, though they're not going to be necessarily like the party scene, they are other activities. Now I'm talking about gay groups and gay activities which are an option that-
text:Yeah.	labels:-you know, good to know about and-and-and maybe in-- within those options or something you might say, "Oh yeah, I'd give that a go. Have a look."
labels:Mm.	text:Well, food really doesn't taste good, but they say it tastes much better-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-if you quit smoking.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Now the downside to that is I'm gonna gain weight.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:That means a new wardrobe, which I'd like to have, but I can't afford it.
labels:Okay. So right now you're seeing that it's a part of your life. It's been a part of your life off and on for 18 years.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:It's become a more important part of your life because you found yourself smoking at times that you thought I'll never smoke then.	text:Right.
labels:Yeah. And your worry is that if you stop, you will end up gaining weight. So I'm hearing this kind of list of things that don't feel so positive about stopping.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:I'm wondering what else might be on that list.	text:Um, withdrawal.
labels:Mm.	text:They say it's awful. Um, being cranky.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:And if I do go through this, I just hope my friends understand and will support me in what I'm trying to do.
labels:Mm-hmm. Okay. Yeah. So added to the other list is the having to go through the withdrawal-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-the unpleasantness of that. Okay. What else might be on the, not so good side about smoking- about stopping?	text:Um, I think everything's on the bad side about smoking, but, um, I've just smoked so long. I-I just can't imagine-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-not- going through life without smoking.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:I know I've got to stop. Uh, I'm having no health problems from cigarettes-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-at present, but when the doctor told me this morning what could be waiting for me in the future-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-that made me rethink-
labels:Mm.	text:-everything.	episode:True
text:Hey.	labels:How are you doing today? I'm Bruce Berger.
text:Pleasure to meet you.	labels:I, uh, I'm a case manager with your health plan. I understand that you came in today to talk about your diabetes.
text:Yeah. I'm supposed to learn how to manage it. I just learned that I got diabetes and apparently, it's pretty bad 'cause, uh, she said my blood sugar was sky high, and then she laid all these huge consequences on things that can happen. That just sounds so disastrous and, uh, and then she told me I gotta do all this stuff. And man, I'm just sort of disappointed right now.	labels:So you just- you just saw the doctor and, uh, you know, you sound like you just got blindsided, uh, with, uh, not only how, how frightening this seems that you have diabetes and that, uh, she-- you say she told you a whole lot of things that can happen with your eyes and circulation and all those kinds of things.
text:She mentioned my legs having troubles and-	labels:And so you're really kind of reeling right now from, uh, all of that. And you sound a little bit pretty, pretty scared actually.
text:Well, that's, yeah. It's not just being scared, you know. I don't want that to happen to me, but then when I, when-when she reels off all these things I gotta do and I'm sort of going oh, oh, you know, I'm not certain I can even get it done. So it's sort of sitting-- well, you know, I'm sitting here thinking that, oh my God, this is- this is what's gonna happen to me.	labels:So it sounds like-
text:And it is discouraging, just like discouraging.	labels:So it sounds a lot like, uh, on top of the fact that you've got something you're really scared about having consequences in terms of everything that can happen, what worries you also is all the different things that she told you you're going to need to do to get it under control. Can't imagine doing all those things, so you almost feel like all that bad stuff's gonna happen.
text:Yeah. It looks like a massive task that I'm may not be able to handle. And then, yeah, all this horrible stuff happens to me. I mean, it's- it's a bleak-looking situation and a lot worse.	labels:Okay. And I-- And what I want to do is help you kind of break this up into some-some doable chunks so that we can get your blood sugar down. I, you know, on the one hand, your doctor is right, you know. Your blood sugar is very high and we do wanna get it down so that we don't have those consequences happen. Uh, and-and there are a number of things that you need to do in order to-to get your blood sugar down. Um, you know, on the other hand, we can take this a step at a time, so it's not so overwhelming.
labels:And I'd like you to be able to tell me what kinds of things that you can do right now. You know, for example, there- there's basically three things that need to be worked out with diabetes. Taking your medicine as prescribed. And honestly, if I was gonna work on one thing right away, given that everything seems so overwhelming would probably that-that first, because that'll have the biggest impact. How-how does that sound so far?	text:Well, I don't think too much trouble in taking the medicines, especially since I understand my blood sugar is really high. and-
labels:So that's easy to do.	text:Yeah, I'm pretty- I'm pretty good at taking drugs.
labels:Yeah. 'Cause it looks like you need to just take your medicine, uh, uh, once a day from-from the prescription. So that sounds doable right now.	text:Yeah. I think I could probably do that.
labels:Okay. The other things that need to be worked on over time certainly would be changing your eating habits, you know, to eat- eat healthier, uh, not necessarily less, but healthier. And the other thing would be getting, um, some more physical activity. And by the way, that doesn't mean going to a gym. That means things like more walking, maybe using stairs instead of an elevator or an escalator, stuff like that. Uh.	text:Well, she also mentioned monitoring my blood sugar and all this. And that just seemed like a lot of mumbo jambo to me.
labels:Yeah. And that really is to give you feedback about how those other things are doing so that it keeps you on task.	text:Oh, okay.
labels:So it helps you know that when you're taking your medicine, when you're changing your eating habits, that it's really having an impact on your blood sugar 'cause getting your blood sugar down is going to keep you from having all of those other problems. How does all this-- where does this leave you now right now in terms of how you're feeling?	text:Well, I like it that I, you know, that-that we can do it at a step at a time. I mean, that's-- that relieves some pressure.
labels:Okay.	text:And being able to talk with you and do this as we go along rather than-- I-I wasn't certain I could just, wham, put this huge program in[chuckles] into effect. Uh, but doing a step at a time and I, you know, that-- getting on the medicine, I don't think that's any big problem. That I can do I am pretty sure.
labels:It sounds like you're very committed to that.	text:Yeah. I think I could do that. Uh, as long as there's no big-time side effects, but, uh-	episode:True
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:All right. So here, it looks like you wrote that you drank alcohol on a few occasions in the last year, and you have used marijuana more often, 30 days in last year.
text:Something like that.	labels:Okay. When students and I talk about their substance use, the first thing I always say, I don't like to tell anyone what to do. That's not my job. Instead, I like to see if there's anything they would like to do, if anything, about their use. So what can you tell me about your marijuana use?
text:Uh, I vape. I have a pen, but I don't smoke it though.	labels:Okay. How often?
text:Um, a few times a month.	labels:Do you vape anything else besides marijuana?
text:I did a peppermint oil once, someone shared it with me.	labels:Okay. Is it okay if I share some information with you?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:We know marijuana has effects on the developing brain. For example, it can make it harder for you to concentrate, it can make it harder for you to remember things, and vaping can seriously hurt your lungs. About one in six people who begin using marijuana as a teenager, later on, become addicted. So what do you think about all this information that I've shared?
text:Well, I don't think it's going to hurt me.	labels:How do you think it affects you?
text:Um, I don't know. It makes me relax, and it's fun to laugh with my friend.	labels:Is there anything about marijuana that worries you, many things that you don't like?
text:Well, I don't want to get in trouble like at school.	labels:How could you get in trouble at school?
text:Well, I can get suspended and I would get kicked off the team, the basketball team.	labels:So staying in school and playing on the basketball team is important to you?
text:Right.	labels:So when you think about these things, are there any things you would like to change about your marijuana use?
text:well, I was thinking to not use when basketball season start.	labels:What would be the benefits of that?
text:Well, I play better when I'm not high.	labels:Marijuana affects how well you play. What would be the other benefits for you?
text:Well, I wouldn't get caught with using a pen, so I wouldn't get kicked off the basketball team.	labels:Okay. Well, it sounds like you have a goal of not using marijuana once basketball starts. How long do you think you could not use?
text:For about a month.	labels:Okay. If I asked you to pick a number, 0 through 10, 0 meaning you're not very confident at all in meeting your goal, or 10 meaning you're very confident, what number would you pick?
text:Um, seven.	labels:A seven. Why do you think you picked that instead of a lower number like five?
text:Well, I'm pretty sure, um, I can stop using for a month. I want to play well.	labels:So, what steps could you take to help you stop using for a month?
text:Uh, I don't know.	labels:How about this question? What might happen within a month that might make you want to vape?
text:Well, if I'm stressed or unhappy, that's when I usually wanna vape.	labels:What else could you do instead of vaping when you feel that way?
text:Hmm, I like to play video games.	labels:Anything else?
text:I can play basketball with my friend Sarah.	labels:Playing basketball and playing video games are a way to feel better.
text:Yeah.	labels:Well, I'm glad to hear that you have a goal of quitting for a month and you are confident of reaching that goal. If you're willing to come back in a month or so, I would be curious to hear how your plan works out.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Well, Good luck with basketball practice. If you want anything or need to talk about something before our next appointment, I'm here Monday through Thursday, and it's always good to see you.	episode:True
text:Hi. Thank you.	labels:So I don't know how much you know already about sort of my role here and why you're even here. So I thought I'd start by telling you a little bit about myself.
text:Okay.	labels:Basically, my job is to meet with all of the students. I meet with everybody about once or twice a semester and just talk with you a little bit about how things are going, different behaviors that you might be engaging in, and thinking about any changes you might wanna make for your life if you decide that you do. It's not my job to change you. I couldn't even if I wanted to. That's not my role at all. It's really to help you think about, you know, how things are going for you and how you might like making changes or moving forward.
text:Okay.	labels:Does that sound okay?
text:Yeah.	labels:All right. So why don't we start by you telling me a little bit about yourself?
text:Sure. Um, as you know, I'm Andrea, I, uh, I'm a junior I'm in the marching band. I play the tenor sax.	labels:Oh, neat.
text:Yeah, I'm also in the-- I'm a bit of a band geek. [laughter] I play, you know, in the wind ensemble and the jazz band, things like that.	labels:Wow. You really are involved in music.
text:Yeah, [crosstalk].	labels:When did you start?
text:Oh, I started playing about 10 years ago, actually.	labels:Wow.
text:Yeah, I started on the violin first, and then I went on, explored a little with the piano, clarinet, finally found the tenor sax, and yeah.	labels:Very cool. I've always wanted to be good at music. [laughter] All right. So it sounds like you're in band and a-a few other musical ensembles, any other hobbies you have or things you like to do for fun?
text:Um, you know, just hanging out with my friends or go to the beach, things like that.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:Just kind of everyday sort of stuff?
text:Yeah [laughs].	labels:Okay. Tell me a little bit about your family.
text:Uh, well I have one older brother he's about eight and a half old- years older than me. My parents, and I have a dog [laughs].	labels:Cute. What kind of dog?
text:He's a Golden Retriever.	labels:Oh, nice. Okay.
text:My big boy.	labels:[laughs] Very fun. All right. And how are things going in school for you?
text:They're pretty good. Grades have been pretty all right. Still like 3.7 ish.	labels:Okay, great, so you're doing well. What sorts of goals do you have for after college- oh, after high school?
text:Uh, I'd like to, you know, I'd like to, of course, graduate high school, hopefully, go to a nice Ivy League school.	labels:Oh, all right.
text:But I mean, that might not happen. And then I'd like to go on and become a doctor. Study psychology and then become a psychiatrist or something.	labels:Okay, you have some pretty big dreams.
text:Yeah.	labels:That's great. That's really exciting to think about that-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and sort of be looking forward to the future and those things. All right. Well, one thing I'm going to ask you about is, um, you know, different people have sort of different things that they really value in their life. Whether it's, you know, their cultural identity or their family or their friends or job or hobbies, things like that. So here's the little sheet that goes through just some basic values that, um, might be more or less important to certain people.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Like belonging or sense of community. Again, cultural identity or family, friendship, modesty, religion, respect, self-determination and spirituality. So, when you think about yourself, which of these are kind of most important to you in terms of your life?
text:Um, I think a sense of community and belonging.	labels:Okay.
text:I think those two and, um, respect.	labels:Respect, okay. Can you tell me a little bit about why you picked those three?
text:Yeah. Well, I think community and belonging, I kind of related them. Um, you know how I said I was in the marching band?	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I really, you know, I really enjoy being in that team setting of, you know, being with other people and all working toward- together towards that one goal.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And then in terms of respect, I-I kind of view that as one of like my major like rules. Like, I-I really do think respect is important, to respect myself and respect those around me, so.	labels:Okay.
text:I place great importance in that.	labels:Okay, great. So sort of being a part of a group and being a part of a team gives you a sense of, um, uh, belonging, like you said.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:And sort of a-a sense of purpose in a way.
text:Yes, purpose.	labels:And then the respect is really sort of all-encompassing.
text:Yes.	labels:Not just authority, but respecting yourself, respecting your teammates or your bandmates and other people around you. Okay, that's great.
text:Definitely, that's right.	labels:All right. Well, um, one of the things I wanted to talk to you about sort of relates to belonging and your friends. So what kinds of things do you like to do when you get together with your friends?
text:Um, sometimes we just, you know, go to the movies, go to the beach, like I had said, or sometimes we just get together at someone's house, play some good board games and hang out.	labels:Mm-hmm, and when you're hanging out with friends, is there ever alcohol involved?
text:Yeah, sometimes.	labels:Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about how alcohol fits into sort of your social scene?
text:Uh, well it's mostly just for, for parties or party settings is kind of to get things going and get everything loosened up as they say.	labels:Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. And so when you go to parties, most of the time there's alcohol there?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. And how often do you think you would say you're drinking?
text:I'd say, um, on a not busy month, for instance, I'd say about like two weekends out of the month. Two or three.	labels:Mm-hmm. So about half the time you're drinking and half the time you're not. Can you tell me what's different about the days when you choose to drink versus not to drink?
text:The days that we drink are mostly, like I said, they're parties, so it's more of that whole partying and dancing and, you know, having everyone have fun. And then when we don't, it's a lot more relaxed. It's a lot more hanging out, playing board games, watching a movie it's not yeah.	labels:So it really depends on what the activity is, whether or not alcohol is gonna be there?
text:Definitely.	labels:Okay. And do you notice a big difference or can you tell me about the difference in your enjoyment level at say a party versus a night you're playing board games?
text:Um, I think of them as-as different, I think, you know, like in playing board games and things, it's meant to be relaxing.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So it's nice to have like that kind of breather-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:-versus with a party it's a lot more energetic it's, uh, after it all, it's very draining.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:But in the moment it's quite fun to dance and have fun.	labels:Okay. So there's sort of pros and cons on both sides?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. What are the things that you like about drinking or like about alcohol?
text:Um, it's, you know, when we drink, we-we tend to have more fun because I guess we're not, you know, everyone's drinking together. We're a lot more loosened up and relaxed-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and not really thinking about stresses or things like that, but it can be--When it's too much drinking, it can be- can be obviously bad.	labels:Okay. So sort of in the-the too much drinking or-or at times, can you tell me some of the less good things or not so good things about alcohol?
text:Um, a lot of times, it'll make- it'll make people stupid. [laughs] Yeah, you know, people make dumb decisions and things like that. We-we usually try to be as safe about it	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-as possible. So we'll like sleep over at a friend's house. And so that, you know, we're not driving and it's mostly within our friend group. So we're not worried about strangers putting weird things in our drinks.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:But, um, definitely some of the ideas people can have when they're stup- when they're drunk and can be really stupid.	labels:Mm-hmm. So you're trying to, like you said, not engage in really dangerous activities?
text:Yeah	labels:You're trying to stay put, you're not driving. You're trying to stay with people that you trust. Um, but yet it sounds like there's still some-some things happening from time to time.
text:Sometimes. Yeah.	labels:Can you tell me a little bit about that?
text:Well, I, especially don't like it whenever me or one of my friends, like we drink too much and we end up like throwing up or things like that, that I don't- that's not fun.	labels:Yeah. Throwing up is never fun.
text:It's not.	labels:And how often do you think that happens?
text:For me, that's happened to me once. It was the first time I ever drunk and it was- it was a lot, I didn't know what I was doing. I was mixing all kinds of weird things and just kind of taking anything everyone- anyone gave me	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and that didn't end well.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:But after that, I haven't- but I do have friends that still do sometimes, so I'll end up like having to take care of them or something and-	labels:Okay.
text:It kind of puts a downer on my- on my fun.	labels:Uh-huh. Okay. So, on the one side, some of the fun things associated with alcohol are people are just more relaxed, sorta, um, carefree can kind of let loose a little bit more, on-on the other hand, there's a little bit more, I guess, planning involved-
text:Yeah.	labels:-because you have to make sure that you're doing it safely or as safe as you can. And then, um, there can be some other consequences like throwing up or even if it's not you, that sometimes you're stuck your-your fun is sort of ruined when you're stuck dealing with a friend who drunk too much. Okay. And the other not so good things about the alcohol?
text:Yeah. People can get a little like sloppy, I guess. Like they're all loose, like with people in corners doing things that should be done in private-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and that kind of stuff.	labels:So you're kind of stuck being exposed to things you don't need to see.
text:Yeah.	labels:Got it. Okay. Um, all right. Well, you mentioned a couple of times that you've made a few decisions to try and limit the dangerous aspect of the drinking. Why did you make those decisions?
text:I just- I've, you know, I have an aunt who is an alcoholic. So I-I see like the issues that are involved and I've seen movies and things I know that drunk driving is an issue-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So, I, you know, I wanna be as safe as possible in those terms and be in a setting where like we can let loose but still be safe like in someone's house or sort of my parents will tell me something. But-- So, I- like I know that there are dangers involved and I guess I wanna limit that.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And so be where I have fun.	labels:Okay. Yeah, it sounds kinda similar to your, um, your value of respect to yourself.
text:Yeah.	labels:On the one hand, you- the drinking maybe helps with the belonging community to start.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:If there's too much, then it sort of—
text:Then it kind of defeats the purpose? [laughs]	labels:Right. And then with the respect, one of the things you mentioned, is really wanting to respect yourself and not sort of cross boundaries, not sort of cross lines.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, how do you think that the drinking fits in with that?
text:In terms of what? In terms of respect?	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I think, well in a way, I do think that drinking is probably a form of disrespect to my own body because I'm not putting things- I'm putting things in it that shouldn't be there.	labels:Okay.
text:And then-- But in terms of at- how it is I am respecting myself, I am- I'm respecting myself by like trying to stay in someone's house and like trying to limit my drinking so I don't get to that blackout like throwing up and everything.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And try to, you know, let loose but still be in control of my behavior so I'm not gonna go somewhere with a person I met-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-into I don't know where to, I don't know what, and-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-things like that.	labels:Okay. So you're sort of looking for that balance-
text:Yeah.	labels:-of how much you can drink to have some of the positive benefits but not cross over.
labels:Okay. And what have you come up with at this point? Do you have sort of a-a limit that you stick to or are you--?	text:I usually-- Well, I start off like I make sure that I make my own drink so I know what's in it and how much is in it. So in that way I control how much I drink. So, I usually just, you know, get one of those cups and then make one drink. And then I'll try to make it last as long as possible. And I'll be like, "All right, this is my one drink" and I'm good in that way. I still have something in my cup so people aren't gonna be like, "Oh, here. Have some more." I'd be like, "No, I'm good. I have mine," and I'll still be, you know, having some to like let loose a little.
labels:Mm-hmm. Okay. And do you feel that that's working pretty well for you or do you sometimes exceed that limit or-or what do you think?	text:For the most part, it works pretty well because, like I said, people, you know, people come asking me, trying to pressure me, I'll be like, "No, I'm good. I have- You know, I still have something. I'll get some later." And I never end up getting anything. Oh, but sometimes they'll be like, "Hey, let's take a shot," and everyone's gathered around like the kitchen or something ready to take a shot. And then at that point, I'll be like, "Oh, well, maybe I can take one more." And that's when I start, you know, falling into-
labels:Okay.	text:-way too much.
labels:So, uh, uh, a portion of the time it's working well for you and another portion of the time maybe you would like-	text:Yeah.
labels:-would like to make some adjustments-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-to-to make it a little smoother. Okay. So, kind of thinking along those lines, how important is it to you make some changes or make some adjustments to your drinking to sort of fit with your values and your goals for yourself?	text:Um, I'd like to make sure that I'd, you know, in terms of respecting myself and my body, I'd like to, you know, try to drink less.
labels:Okay.	text:Like I-I-- You know, it is nice to let loose and have fun, but I'd also like it to be so, you know, I'm not damaging my body, you know.
labels:Right.	text:Like my liver doesn't work by the time I'm like 22.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:And, um, you know, have my friends on board with a similar mentality so we can kind of work at it together as a group, as a- as a community.
labels:Uh-huh. So kind of combining you alls-	text:Yeah.
labels:-goals. Okay. So, you-you have a goal it sounds like, of actually cutting back on your drinking. How important is it to you to work on that goal and on a scale of one to ten, where one is not at all important and ten is it's the most important thing right now?	text:I'd say about like-like a six or a seven.
labels:Oh, okay.	text:I'd like to work on it but, you know, if I get around to it, I get around to it. If I don't, I don't.
labels:Uh-huh. Why do you say six or seven rather than like a four?	text:Um, because I still think it's-it's important.
labels:Uh-huh.	text:I still, you know. Like I said, I don't want to hurt my body. Especially going to med school like I know how things affect your body and also affect your-your social and your school work and things like. I know that once I get to college, it's not- it's not gonna-gonna work out being, you know, drinking every weekend and then like trying to wake up early and go to school, take an exam. Like I know that's not- that's not feasible. It's not a good idea.
labels:Yeah, looking ahead, you can't keep drinking this way and reach the goals that you have for yourself.	text:Yeah.
labels:Okay. Well, how confident are you that you could cut down if you wanted to-	text:I think I-
labels:-on that same scale from one to ten?	text:I think if I made the decision that I was going to, for sure, then I think definitely like a 10 I know it'd be going through.
labels:Oh, wow. Okay. Why do you say 10?	text:It's just because I know that once I make the decision, I know I can do it. It's making the decision in the first place.
labels:Okay. And so you mentioned the- you know, quite a few reasons why you would like to cut down. Um, have you thought at all about how you might go about doing that?	text:Um, I'm thinking of maybe like trying to convince my friends without sounding, you know, dorky or something and be like, hey, you know, let's just stay in today. Like, let's not go out or something. Or just be like, hey, I'm not like-- I'm not going to drink today. And then even if my friends do, like being okay with them, drinking around me and not doing it, and then them being okay with me drinking-- Me not drinking and them doing whatever they want.
labels:So sort of, um, trying to plan more activities that don't involve alcohol-	text:Yeah.
labels:-and then also trying to participate in activities without drinking yourself or maybe even drinking less than you're drinking.	text:Yeah.
labels:Okay. Does that sound like a goal you want to work on now or?	text:I think so. I think it's-it's very feasible. I think it's possible.
labels:Okay. Um, so I guess we'll talk about, um, less alcohol activities. I'm just making some notes to myself and then maybe, um, reducing the amount of drinking that you're doing if alcohol is involved. Okay. Um, so that-that goal sounds feasible, you said? Would it be okay if we met in a couple of weeks to sort of see how it's going?	text:I think so. I think that's good.
labels:Does that sound like something you'd like to do?	text:Yeah.
labels:Um, so yeah, you know, it really sounds to me like you have a good plan in place and as long as you're willing and-and interested in meeting again, I'd be very excited to be able to talk with you about how it's going.	text:Yeah, I'd like to.
labels:All right. Great. So I'll-I'll plan to see you then in a few more weeks.	text:Perfect. Nice.
text:I'm sorry, but are you the pharmacist? I just had a question about citalopram.	labels:Yeah, I'm the pharmacist on duty. Citalopram, okay. It's an antidepressant and it comes in 10, 20, and 40-milligram strengths. It's excreted in the urine and it has a half-life of about 35 hours. For side effects, there are sexual side effects, heart side effects, and stomach side effects.
text:Okay, but I just wanted to know if it interacts with phenelzine?	labels:Oh, um, yeah, I think that should be fine.
text:Okay, thanks for that. I have an appointment to run to.	labels:All right, thanks. Call me anytime.	episode:True
text:Yeah, I do, just a couple of minutes though.	labels:All right. Well, do you have any specific questions?
text:Um, nothing specific. I just am unfamiliar with the medication.	labels:Okay. Well, citalopram is an SSRI medication. Its indication is for depression and it's typically dosed as a 20-milligram tablet but it is available as 10, 20, and 40 milligrams. Any patients started on this medication should be monitored for improvement in symptoms in four to eight weeks.
text:Okay. Uh, what about side effects?	labels:If there are some side effects to this, it can include GI effects, sedation, or sexual dysfunction. But if you have a patient that suffers from any of those things, you can try either decreasing the dose or changing them to a different agent. Do you have any other questions?
text:Um, what about does it interact with phenelzine?	labels:Oh, that I'm not sure of. Um, can I get back to you later on this afternoon with that answer?
text:Oh, sure.	labels:Fantastic. Thank you.
text:Yeah.	labels:-so don't forget the nice car, and some kids, and be a- be a good dad-
text:Yeah, yeah.	labels:-to your kids. So, is this dream starting to-- I am getting a picture of?
text:Yeah, it'd be good.	labels:Yeah. Okay. So, what I'm really interested in is how offending fits in with that picture, that dream.
text:I guess it doesn't.	labels:Yeah, how doesn't it fit, Billy?
text:Uh, I guess I have to keep coming-coming back here and go into court and stuff.	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah. It kinda messes things up.	labels:Yeah. It kinda messes up that dream, that picture?
text:Yeah. It makes it harder.	labels:Mm. Makes it harder? Yeah. Well, it can make it harder to keep a job, aye?
text:Mm.	labels:And harder to—
text:Like it's hard to get a job 'cause you have to say that you've done prison time and stuff, so it's pretty hard.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:And we've talked about that idea of you getting a job and something to do with cars 'cause that's where your passion is.
text:Mm.	labels:Yeah? So, what have you been thinking, um, since we last met, about what you might do about getting that kind of job?
text:Uh, I don't know if-if I would go into polytech, done courses there or something.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah. Like, if they've got jobs now.	labels:Okay, so you know some people?
text:Yeah.	labels:You've gone down that road of kind of going back to school in some ways and getting a tryout or-
text:Yeah, yeah.	labels:-getting a qualification?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah? So, what-what would interest you about going down that same, sort of, path?
text:Just learn more about cars and just, kind of, hands-on job.	labels:Mm-hmm. Yeah, so what in particular? Like, if you could have whatever you wanted, in terms of that sort of work, what would you do?
text:[sighs] Mechanic, or panel [unintelligible 00:18:02], or just-- I wouldn't care, I just-- as long as it's cars.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, as long as it has to do with cars, you'd be sweet with that?
text:Yes, pretty much.	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So-so what sort of things do you think you need to do to go down that path to get that qualification?
text:Just I have to get that training, I guess, and then probably get a job.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So, what sort of training did you-- did these people, that you've been talking about, what did they do?
text:Like, sort of, um, just at the polytech. I don't know what exactly it was, but—	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:It took them like-- And, it took them like a year or something, and then they went into apprenticeship.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. So, how confident are you that you could do something similar to these-these friends that you've got?
text:Yeah. I could do it pretty easy. It's just, like, I probably know all this stuff already.	labels:Okay. So, it would be pretty easy. So, if it's pretty easy, what do you need to do next, Billy?
text:Like, well, I went out and picked some forms and stuff, but it's real confusing, like, having to apply, so I-I just couldn't-- I don't know. I couldn't do it.	labels:Okay. So, you actually went to the polytech—
text:Yeah, yeah.	labels:-and picked up some forms?
text:Yeah, yeah. Passed around and everything.	labels:Wow.
text:Yeah.	labels:That's fantastic, Billy.
text:Yeah, but I just-- Like, they wouldn't help me out, so-	labels:Okay.
text:-I got some forms and-	labels:Tell me- tell me what happened when you say they-- like it didn't help you? What-what-what happened?
text:I asked- I asked them what I had to do, and they said I had to fill out some forms, but-	labels:Yeah.
text:-well, the forms, it's too confusing.	labels:Okay. So, they gave you a horde of forms for a particular course?
text:Yeah, yeah. Well, I got one- I got one for panel [unintelligible 00:19:33], and one for, uh, uh, like, panel and paint-	labels:Mm.
text:-so, learning how to paint cars and stuff.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So, you got the forms, took them- took them home?
text:Yeah. I was gonna fill them out there, but then I didn't get them, so I took them home, but I was gonna get Donna to help me, but I just didn't get around to it.	labels:Mm-hmm. You said the forms were confusing?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah? What-what's the confusing bit?
text:I didn't understand, like, what you're supposed to write down. Like, yeah. I'm not good at this, maybe too confusing.	labels:Yeah. So, when you've had to write things or fill out forms before, how-how's that been for you?
text:I don't really deal with it. I s-- I don't really like writing.	labels:You don't like writing?
text:No.	labels:Yeah. So, wondering what that's about, about not actually liking writing.
text:No, I'm just real messy, so people can't read it.	labels:People can't read-- People can't read your handwriting?
text:[chuckles] Yeah, no. It's what they say, yeah.	labels:Oh, you must be a doctor.
text:Yeah, I am. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah? [chuckles] Yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So, you need some help to fill out the forms?
text:Yeah. Like, a computer or something. If you could write on a computer, I could do that.	labels:Mm.
text:But, we don't have a computer.	labels:Okay. All right, so what-what do you need to do, Billy, to actually get to that point where you can fill out a form and post it off?
text:Just ask to get someone else to do it I guess. I guess I could ask Donna, but it's been embarrassing.	labels:Okay, so you feel like it would be embarrassing to ask Donna to give you some help-
text:Yeah.	labels:-because you feel that she might find out something about you that you're not quite sure you want her to find out?
text:Well, I don't know if it's that serious, it's just-	labels:Okay.
text:-I'm sure most people can fill them out. I don't know, I just don't get it.	labels:Hmm. So, who else could you ask to help you?
text:No one. I guess you. You could do it. Would you do it?	labels:Well, have you got the forms with you?
text:No.	labels:Okay. I'm wondering about-- because it sounds like this whole idea about filling out the forms, is getting in the way of this bigger dream that you've got which is around getting a qualification around something to do with cars-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and getting on this road where you're staying out of trouble because you've got this, um, interest-
text:Yeah.	labels:-which you can do. So, it seems a real shame that the forms are gonna get in the way, so we need to find a way around the forms.
text:Mm.	labels:Yeah? So, what do you think, between now and next week, you can do around the forms?
text:I guess, I'd go pick them up and I don't know, I guess I could ask Donna, but she'd probably help me, I don't really want to.	labels:She'd probably help you, but you don't really want to. It sounds like you're a bit embarrassed.
text:Well, I don't know. Plus, well, I don't know if I could bother getting up at nine o'clock every morning and having to go to Polytec. I've got used to sleeping in.	labels:Mm.
text:At night.	labels:So, the whole thing about going back to poly-- going back to school-
text:Yeah.	labels:-going back to polytech is-- would-would require a really big change in the way which you're currently living, and you're not quite sure if you can do that.
text:Yeah. Uh, it would be cool if it's anything like school. Like, I didn't really enjoy school. [unintelligible 00:22:56] so writing and stuff, and I wouldn't wanna do that. If it's all hands-on though, it would be all good.	labels:Yeah. So, there's something here about your level of-- about how confident you are around writing or how unconfident you are, that sounds like it's getting in the way.
text:Yeah. No, it does get in the way. I just don't wanna do it.	labels:Mm. Okay.
text:It's a waste of time.	labels:All right. So, it sounds like we might need to have some more conversation around that.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, what's really getting in the way?
text:For what?	labels:Well, this writing business. What's really getting in the way?
text:Of what? Well, I don't get it.	labels:Well, I'm wondering, like-- it sounds like it's a thing that you're putting up as saying you can't do-
text:Yeah. I can't.	labels:-so I'm wondering where you are around your writing and you're reading?
text:Oh, it's pretty [unintelligible 00:23:47], but, like, still-- I don't know, I'm not retarded, or anything. I can write and read.	labels:Mm.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Well, I have to say, I think it's really obvious that you're not retarded.
text:Like--	labels:[chuckles]
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, we are having a really good conversation here.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, reading and writing is not a strong point for you.
text:No, not really. Yeah, I don't really enjoy it.	labels:Mm.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, how much reading and writing is involved in the course that you're gonna go on?
text:I don't know. Hopefully, not many-- not much, but that's what I wanna find out, I guess.	labels:So, what'd it be like if you were more confident in your reading and writing? What'd that be like?
text:It'd make everything easier.	labels:Mm.
text:Like-- I don't really like reading books or anything, so I don't really care about that but just, say, real-life stuff like going to the bank, and stuff like that-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-yeah, that have filling out forms.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:And, I guess that there will be manuals and stuff like that on-
text:Yeah.	labels:-your course that, you know, to-- the hands-on stuff, it sounds like you're really confident around doing, but it's the more reading, writing, book, kind of, stuff that you are not so--
text:Yeah, I didn't think about that.	labels:Mm.
text:Yeah, that'd suck if you had to read, like, a big manual or something. Hmm.	labels:Mm. Okay. So- so like before you get to here where you got this dream and there's some things that need to happen before that.
text:Mm.	labels:Yeah. So, mm, we need to think about what's the very first step.	episode:True
text:Right. Actually, I do want to speak to you about something that happened during this past weekend. Usually, as, you know, I'm, um, I'm an honor student. I-I usually I'm studying over the weekend and my parents don't let me go out to parties, but I kind of use that to my advantage, to convince my parents to go to this party that my friends were pressuring me to go to. And when I- when I got there, like I'm not used to this like party environment where everything you see in the movies is kind of what happens, where you have people just drinking out of the bottle-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-or playing random games with alcohol, just to get drunk for no reason. And because I was there in the moment, I felt pressured to do and like conform to what everyone else was doing. So I wouldn't be- I wouldn't be ostracized.	labels:Yeah, you know, I get it. Like, we've all been there. Okay. You know, I was in high school ones too, you know, I drank too. I get it. There's not a ton to do in this town a-and kids drink, but, you know, promise we have these rules-
text:I understand.	labels:-and you're on a team, you have to stick by the rules.
text:Okay. Um, I know that it's bad for me. It's-it's bad for my body. It's bad for-for-for-for being on the team, for being an athlete. It hinders my performance. Just, I don't know. I-I feel that my-my friends pressure me. I don't know. I feel I should like go with different friend groups. Maybe. I don't know.	labels:Yeah. Chris, come on. You're getting peer pressure?
text:I don't know, like being in a sports team, y-you feel very, you have to like be unified with the group.	labels:Yeah, but you're one of the leaders.
text:Right. And as being one of the leaders, my fellow teammates expect me to be-- I expect them to lead not only in the sports but also in social environments. And if that's a social- that's a social custom in our society. So it's like—	labels:Yeah. Well, maybe you can start leading as a non-drinker then.
text:I could, but that could also backfire on me. I feel that I could be ridiculed for being, having a stick up my butt, you know.	labels:You're a star player, who's going to pick on you?
text:I mean, it's just one-- I'm just one person against the voice of the mob.	labels:All right. Well, yeah. So the issue again is I can't be hearing reports about you drinking. I can't be hearing that you're at parties and you can't be seeing pictures on Facebook. You know, there-there are rules at this school and in my job, I have to enforce them. So, you know, like I said, I get it, you know-
text:I understand.	labels:-I'm not saying I know what it's like. I-I get that you want to have fun in your teenage years. I get that. But, you know, you are a star player, we want to keep you on the team. You know, we got to figure out a way to get through this.
text:Well, I'll dedicate the time, not to party and night. Well, not-not-not party, but, you know, get involved with alcohol to that extent. And like, have it publicized on the internet.	labels:What do you mean?
text:Like on Facebook, all the pictures that you saw on the internet. Like I w- I will avoid those situations where I have to go to a party where I feel pressured to actually drink alcohol and allow what I do in my own private time to put on the internet so others can see, even though.	labels:All right. Yeah. I mean, we got to have a deal here if you're going to be on the team. Okay?
text:Right. I'll stop.	labels:All right. You promise?
text:I promise.	labels:All right. Shake.
text:Shake.	labels:All right. I'll see you later.
text:See you later.	labels:All right.	episode:True
labels:So with his encouragement, you-you tried some drugs.	text:Oxy.
labels:You tried oxy? Okay.	text:Yeah.
labels:Okay. And he encouraged you to do that.	text:Well, yeah he said it was a pain- a pain medicine.
labels:He said that it would help you with some of the pain that you've been having.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Yeah.	text:And it has, but I don't do it as often, it's just sometimes.
labels:Okay. So you trusted him on that, and you tried it out and you found that it helped you in certain ways. What are some of the things that you said it's-- takes some of the pain away, it's not just-- you know.	text:Dealing with my grandma's loss.
labels:Okay, so that's helped you.	text:Yeah. I feel alone, and I just, I miss her and, it does- it does help but,-
labels:Mm-hmm. So it help—	text:-I don't wanna have to rely on having to take that.
labels:Okay. So it's not something you wanna rely on, you don't see yourself continuing to use this. It's something that you'v found at least for the moment very helpful?	text:Mm-hmm. Yeah, and—
labels:But it's not something that you wanna make a habit of becoming reliant on, or dependent?	text:Right.
labels:Yeah, okay. Um, and-and so that's a lot going on right now for you? Yeah.	text:Yeah, it is.
labels:You've been managing in the best way you can. You also have some doubts about it too, it sounds like?	text:Yeah, well, I don't really know too much about it, other than it makes me feel good.
text:I'm doing all right. How are you?	labels:I'm good. Um, wow, what's changed? What do we have here?
text:Oh, I got my lip pierced.	labels:Emily, why? Why did you get your lip pierced?
text:Why? I don't know. I wanted a change and-	labels:You're-
text:-it seems kind of cool	labels:-gorgeous. Your teeth are lovely. You do not need a piercing.
text:Well, I mean, nobody needs a piercing, I wanted one. It was a-	labels:Do you know what-
text:-nice change.	labels:-those oral piercings can do to your teeth?
text:Oh, I mean, it's my lip that's pierced, not my teeth.	labels:Well, yes, except that, you know what's gonna happen. See how-- Do you feel how when you're moving your lips-- Smile for me. Okay. So, do you see how when your muscles are moving, that piercing is rubbing against your gums-
text:Yeah.	labels:-as well as your teeth. So, we can see some recession that's gonna start to happen-
text:Yeah.	labels:-possibly, um, affecting the tooth itself, chipping the tooth, et cetera. So, it's something that we definitely don't like to see.
text:I mean, it's been okay so far. It hasn't caused me any problems.	labels:Well, it's only been a month.
text:Yeah.	labels:I think it [unintelligible 00:01:18] days yet, and it might not be a bad idea to reconsider the piercing.
text:I mean, I just put in-	labels:Just-
text:-I'm not gonna take it right out. It's-- Like you said, I've only had it in for a month, I mean.	labels:Emily, I've been seeing you for so long and you know that I really just-- I think you have lovely teeth and I've watched you, you know, just mature, et cetera, and I hate-- I'd hate to see you wreck your teeth for something like this. I really would.
text:Well, I mean, if it starts to cause a problem, then maybe we talk about it, but at this point, I mean-	labels:All right.
text:-it's fine.	labels:All right. Okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. We'll continue with the exam, but you know where I stand on this. Okay?
text:All right.	labels:All right.
labels:Hi, Deborah. How are you doing today?	text:Good, I'm doing really good.
labels:Yes, um, so you did do your Values Clarification Sheet. Is there anything that you'd like to talk about that you discovered?	text:Yeah, I really like doing this, and, um, I-I rated health as my first-
labels:Oh, so it's your first?	text:-uh, value. Yeah, because I really value physical and mental health, um, spiritual, emotional. Everything as a whole package, I guess, health. Um, and I'm working on, um, a certification to become a fitness trainer. Cal State [inaudible 00:00:40] there's a like extension program. I've been doing that for the last five weeks. I have a final exam coming up, like, Saturday. A little tense about it, I guess, but, um, I'm looking forward to, like, doing it, and I gotta wait for my results. Then, I got into an internship.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Um, but it's kind of exciting, a different career path in my life. Being an office worker for so long is getting boring too-- physical activity, health, in that respect.
labels:So, health being your number one, um, which is kind of pushing you into this new direction, as far as you being a prior officer worker? You're doing something that you're actually living to do.	text:Yeah, I like being active. You know, if I could, um, be more adept to tennis, and I would love to do something like that coaching people how to play tennis, but I don't. I know enough about the game and play it, but I-I don't think my skill level would be high enough to actually coach other people but—
labels:Now, have you done this sheet more than once?	text:Yes, I have.
labels:And then, has health always been number one for you?	text:It's been in the top. It's been up there, yeah. I don't remember if it's always been number one. It's probably definitely been in the top three. Uh, yeah, because I've had problems, um, with inner harmony, I guess in different stages in my life, so I don't get that. This time I put it at number two.
labels:Inner harmony is number two?	text:Yeah, it's just funny how it came out that it wasn't in the top 12. But then when I look at it again it had something to do with, um, peace, uh, inner peace or something or something in there.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:And, um, I put that as a higher priority, or top of my value list.
labels:So, would you like to express more on the inner harmony part of how that affects your life?	text:Yeah. Um, since I've been practicing yoga, and since I learned how to teach yoga, that's been something that I've been, um, coming to terms with more, that I feel like I have a lot more inner harmony. I'm more at peace with myself, and in-in the quiet times, and if I'm meditating.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Um, I really feel like-- yeah, I feel like really good about myself.
labels:So, yoga, is that based on the number two, like inner harmony? That's where that comes from?	text:Yeah, that's part of it. Yeah, and then just feeling like, um, I don't have to please other people either. It's not a selfish thing to put myself first. And, uh, that's something I've always tried to do, make other people happy, please other people, and-and also put myself second, third, fourth, or whatever it is. And I always thought, "Well, that's the way a good person should be.They should always put other people first, you know. And then there's times for that, you know. There's something going on, and you wanna go out of your way to help people, and you say, "Well, my needs aren't so important right now." I think that is okay to do once in a while. As long as you know- you know that you're not really, um, doing anything detrimental to yourself while you're doing it. And you realize, "Well, I'm just-- I'm really helping this other person a lot, and it gives me satisfaction."
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Not out of a sense of, uh, you know, "I'm obligated to this person."
labels:Yes, yes, yes. So, basically, reflecting on how you felt before about you were coming second, third, and fourth. Um, it was- it was really a problem, you know, like, how could you be so, you know, selfish, and think about yourself when-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-the reality is inner peace and inner harmony is based around, you know, self-self worth, and you know, self-- and-and dealing with-	text:Self love.
labels:-self love.	text:Yeah, mm-hmm, yeah. [crosstalk] And that it's not selfish.
labels:Yeah that's not selfish. And so you feel as though you can help, you can be of help to others, um, just as long as it's not detrimental to yourself. It's true.	text:Yes. Yeah. Um, then, and but also service, that's third because I really do enjoy helping other people. Being there for other people, you know, and-and if it puts myself out. Like I have my brother, his-his daughter, and his granddaughter they come over and, uh, I slept on-on the air mattress and, uh, me with my mother and my dad and my sis-- my-- his daughter in the other spare room that I have.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:And I do that, but I think, well, it's one night or it's two nights that I have a guest. I could sleep in my bed all the other days. [unintelligible 00:05:54]
labels:And in the sense of you saying in your words, you'll live.	text:Right. Mm-hmm.
labels:So, live, um, having that as a priority, um, do you feel as though, like you said before you'll live, but you know that you're able to look at, okay, these are my values, you know, and you're able to acknowledge [unintelligible 00:07:30] values.	text:Yeah.
labels:And learning the differences of the different cultures that brings you wisdom.	text:Yes. And school learning in the classroom and outside of the classroom. Where I've been in different Native American communities, reservations, place I spent two months in the summertime really, uh, learning about the cultures is a beautiful place to be, there's a lot of wisdom. And, uh, fun, pleasure, fun, satisfaction-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-enjoyment. I think it's intertwined in a lot of things. It's fun to learn about pe-- other people, other cultures. it's fun to have the inner harmony. I think that- I think that was an all-encompassing thing about life. The part of it is to experience pleasure. Yeah.
labels:So pleasure being your number five.	text:Yeah.
labels:Okay.	text:And when I think of the flip side of that, uh, um, I-I know there's gonna be pain, disappointment, upset in my life, um, too that I accept that and that's part of joy.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:True joy comes from knowing it's not always gonna be happy. I'm gonna- I'm gonna be bummed out sometimes.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:I'm gonna be disappointed, I'm gonna be injured or whatever.
labels:So you've taken that into account that-	text:Absolutely.
labels:-things may happen in life.	text:Mm-hmm. Yeah.
labels:It sounds as though your list is like definitely a story. I-It kind of attracts you in the beginning as far as your health and the number two was being service. Number three. Uh—	text:Inner harmony.
labels:Inner harmony was number two, and having that peace of then to allow yourself to help other people or to serve-service.	text:Right.
labels:Not being, you know, whatever you did for others. That being, um, as far as, like you said within yourself, that you won't be able to find, um, problems with helping other people. And, uh, that's when service which is your number three or number four, which has been wisdom. You learning different, you know, cultures and having that broad range of-of just opening your eyes and seeing the world in a whole another scope.And then five which being pleasure, which is also okay, I do see the whole world and I know that within myself that I'm able to, you know, accept that I will have things coming out of me as far as, you know, not being, you know, uh, it's like, okay, things might happen. You're gonna get bummed one day but finding joy and pieces [unintelligible 00:10:21]	text:Yeah.
labels:Well, it was nice talking to you.	text:Yeah, it was nice being here and having you listen to me. Encouraging me was okay.
text:[signs] Kind of slow.	labels:Kind of slow?
text:Yeah.	labels:What kind of things have you been in your rehab?
text:Oh, they have me doing all kinds of things in different machines and stuff. Yeah, it hurts.	labels:It hurts? Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. Where are you having pain?
text:Well, just about every joint like especially my knees. They're really-- They have me doing some leg things that-that-that is it really necessary?	labels:Well, you know, I-I understand that pain is hard to work through but a lot of time when you're having rehab after a stroke, that pain is telling you that your muscles and joints are starting to work again. So you can kind of think of it as a positive way to, you know, know that your-your body's getting back to normal.
text:Okay.	labels:But what are your goals for the long term?
text:I wanna go home.	labels:Oh, of course, of course. And what are the things that you'd like to be able to do once you get home?
text:Everything. I wanna- I wanna, play with my dog. I miss my dog. I wanna cook for myself. I'm a very independent person and I wanna do things for myself.	labels:Yeah, yeah. And so that's a very important goal to be able to get back home, to be able to get back to your independence. Have you thought about what it might take to get there?
text:Um, I guess the rehab.	labels:Mm-hmm. Yeah, you're absolutely right. And it's also going to be very important that once you're home, you're able to continue on a regular activity program. Have you thought about what that might look like?
text:Not really.	labels:Not really, okay. Well, have you ever heard of something called Tai Chi? Is that a familiar term to you?
text:Oh, yeah.	labels:You've heard of it?
text:Uh, I have.	labels:Okay.
text:I have a friend who, uh, does it and she just raves about it. She loves it.	labels:Well, you know, Tai Chi is one of the best ways to get your balance back after you've had something like a stroke. And it's also really good for preventing falls. And if you wanna be home and you wanna be doing the things you wanna do and going for walks with your dog, it's very important to make sure that you don't fall 'cause that would cause more problems down the road.
text:Absolutely. I do not want to fall, for sure.	labels:So what do you think about Tai Chi? Is that something you think you might be able to try sometime?
text:Well, I-I hadn't really thought about it, but yeah I guess, I guess.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Like I said, my friend talks about it and-and it's very pretty. I've seen pictures, you know.	labels:Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, it's not that easy to get started. You do certainly have to have some motivation to want to do it. Um, and when you first start, oftentimes you do feel a little wobbly or a little insecure.
text:Well, I don't see how I could do it. I-I'm still in a walker, you know.	labels:Yeah, yeah, I understand. So there are lots of places around that have it. Your local senior center would have it. And what I recommend is that you start by doing it in a chair. Just sitting in the chair.
text:I could?	labels:You could. You can talk to the instructor and that way you won't fall, you'll feel confident and you'll start to learn some of the moves. And then gradually over time, as you get a little bit better at doing the moves in a chair, you can start to stand up, use the chair to lean on, and then eventually, you'll be able to get to the point where you can do it on your own.
text:And you really recommend this?	labels:You know, it cuts your risk of falls in half. It also helps to reduce pain although that's not a short-term benefit, you do have to stick with it for at least three to six months to start have it help reduce your pain. But it does have a number of things that I think would get you to your goals of being home and able to play with your dog and doing your own cooking and things like that.
text:You do Tai Chi?	labels:I do Tai Chi. I do it three days a week and it's really helped my balance as well.
text:Oh, okay. Well, yeah. Um, listen, anything that's going to get me home and if you do it and you recommend it, I'll try it.	labels:All right. Well, I'm delighted. It's a pleasure to see you again. I hope your rehab continues to go well and we can talk some more about this at our next visit.
text:Okay, okay.	labels:All right. Thank you for coming in.	episode:True
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah.	labels:Hi, I'm Bruce Berger. I work in the clinic and, uh, I noticed that you're in to pick up a prescription for Sarah's, uh, rescue inhaler-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-for her asthma. I noticed that she's been in the emergency room five times in the last year for her asthma. What's that- what's that been like for you?
text:It's been- it's been really difficult. Um, I hate to see her gasping for breath. And, um, I'm really worried, you know, when she has to go. Uh, so that's been-- it's really difficult when I have to take her.	labels:Yeah, it sounds like you'd be willing to do whatever you can to try to prevent that from happening.
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah.	labels:Okay. I-I also noticed that, uh, it's been about three months or so since you picked up the prescription for her chronic inhaler.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Are you having some difficulties with that?
text:Well, I did research on the chronic inhaler and I found out that there were steroids in it and that-that I don't want her taking steroids. I did, uh, research on some of the potential side effects and some of the health problems that can result from taking steroids and I-I just don't want her to take those at all. I don't want her exposed to them at all. And then, uh, let me just go ahead and lay this out right now. Uh, because I'm sure it'll come up, but I-I do smoke. But I make sure that I do not smoke around her so that I make sure that it does not affect her. So-	labels:Okay.
text:-I just want to let you know that right off.	labels:Well, it sounds like you care about Sarah a great deal. You-you don't want her, uh, using steroids. You're worried about what kind of effects those would have on her and you're- you're working hard to keep your smoking away from her so it doesn't affect her asthma.
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah.	labels:Okay. Uh, would you mind if we talked a little bit about the chronic inhaler and the medicine that you're concerned about with, you know, the steroids because, you know, I certainly don't want her using a medicine that has steroids in it, like the ones that you're worried about for athletes. Uh, can we talk about that just a little bit?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. Even though, uh, even though this medicine isn't the-the medicine that's in this is in the same broad family as the steroids you're worried about, and those are called anabolic steroids.
text:Okay.	labels:Which build people up and have masculinizing effects.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:If-if I can draw an analogy-- Again, even though this medicine is in the same family as those big broad-broad family. If I could draw an analogy, a grape and a watermelon are in the same family of fruits, you know, and obviously, grape is much smaller than a watermelon. And if you eat one grape, you'd be fine. If you ate an entire watermelon, it can make you very sick. If we look at the grape as the medicine your daughter's taking, again, it's in the same broad family, the amount of drug that your daughter is getting is very small. Uh, and not only that it's not an anabolic steroid, even though it's in the same big family. And what this drug does is actually reduces the inflammation in your daughter's lungs. And-and it doesn't even get absorbed into the body. It only goes to her lungs. And as I said, I wouldn't want your daughter taking a medication that could have the impact of those anabolic steroids. This is really safe for your daughter to use. So what-what are your thoughts about considering having her using this?
text:Well, I-I guess I didn't realize that they weren't the same thing as the anabolic steroids.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Which are the ones that cause all the problems and everything. So, um, if-if you can assure me that it's not going to have those same side effects and health problems-	labels:Yeah, def-definitely would not. I mean, probably you saw the name corticosteroid and thought, "uh-oh."
text:Yeah.	labels:You know. And so-- yeah, and that- and that does concern people. But I do want to reassure you that this is medication that only goes to her lungs, and won't get in her body and they're not the same kind of drugs as the ones you're worried about.
text:Okay.	labels:Do you mind if I talk to you a little bit about what your daughter's lungs are like when she's having these inflammations and needing to go to the emergency room?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. When-when somebody has asthma, their lungs are like hypersensitive. If I could use an analogy, again, if-if you had the skin burnt off your arm, if somebody brushed up against you before he had the skin burned off your arm, it wouldn't bother you at all. But when the skin's burned off your arm, you literally react to it. Her lungs are exquisitely sensitive. Uh, and like the skin on your arm would be if the skin got burned off. And what this drug can do? This chronic inhaler is reduce the inflammation in her lungs so that her lungs don't remain exquisitely sensitive. Because otherwise, everything in the air like dust, pollen, uh, reacts with her, uh, in ways that it would not normally affect us.
text:Oh, okay.	labels:And so this chronic inhaler can really prevent that from happening. Okay? Which is why it's so important to use it.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:The other thing I was going to tell you is that, unfortunately, uh, even though you are smoking outside and keeping the smoke away from her, the smoke on your clothes, because her lungs are so sensitive, can also affect her lungs and cause her to have a reaction. Now, something I'd like you to think about is that, if you use the chronic inhaler every day, she may not be sensitive to the smoke on your clothes, but she still maybe because her lungs are just very different than ours. Um, honestly, I'd love to see you quit smoking for you too because, you know, as you know, it's not real good for you.
text:Yeah.	labels:Uh, and it would certainly help her. Um, but what I'd like you to do is to, kind of, keep an eye on what happens when she uses the chronic inhaler. And if she's still flaring up when you're around her, if there are any, if there is smoke on your clothes because it-it can flare her up.
text:Oh, even when it's just on my clothes?	labels:Yeah. Yeah.
text:She's that sensitive. If I realized that—	labels:It-it-it-- Yeah. It may not- it may not when she uses the chronic inhaler, uh, but you'll need to keep an eye on that. Obviously, it would be- what would be best if it didn't get on your clothes, or you quit smoking.
text:Right. Um, so would it help, um-- You know, the thought of quitting smoking is a pretty daunting aspect.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I mean, I know people who've tried to quit and it's-it's just it's- it's really difficult, you know. So I know, it'd be better—	labels:Very hard. It's very relaxing, and-
text:Yeah.	labels:And-and it's hard to replace it with something.
text:Yeah, it is. Um.	labels:So, uh, any thoughts on what you may be able to do to-to help at this point, if you don't choose to quit right away?
text:Well, I was thinking, um, if since it, you know, it affects her that it's on my clothes, if I only smoked while she was at school, and then changed my clothes before she came home. Would that help?	labels:Oh, that-that sounds like it would be great if you were able to do that. Obviously, don't smoke in the house, you know- you know.
text:Oh, absolutely. I never. Never.	labels:Um, so yeah. If you're willing to do that, that certainly would help.
text:Okay.	labels:Uh, again, if you get to the point sometime down the road where you're willing to quit for both you and her, uh, we'd be glad to help you do that. Because you're right it is- it's not an easy thing to do.
text:Yeah. [chuckles]	labels:Okay.
text:It's really difficult.	labels:So it sounds like right now where we are, is you're willing to-to have her use the chronic inhaler-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-to try to get the inflammation down, so she doesn't need to go to the emergency room and do whatever you can at this point to keep the smoke off your clothes. And I think you're gonna see big changes in terms of, uh, her not needing to go to the emergency room, and you probably won't need to use the rescue inhaler hardly at all.
text:Oh, really?	labels:Yeah, because you'll get that inflammation down.
text:Oh, that's great-	labels:Okay.
text:-because that's always scary when she has to use that one.	labels:Yeah. So we'll go ahead and get both of those prescriptions ready.
text:Okay.	labels:Use the chronic inhaler every day, keep the rescue inhaler around if she needs it. Uh, and let's see how that works.
text:Okay.	labels:Okay?
text:That sounds good. Thank you.	labels:All right. Good.	episode:True
labels:How did you know you messed up?	text:Because I was- because I was right there, man. I was right there in the same place when I'd come home and I'd pop a couple of those pills, it was the same deal, like and I wanted to stay there. I wanted to stay exactly right there. And I just felt like I'd ruined everything. You know, Erin's using the phone now, and he called me the next day and it was, uh, great, but I kinda felt ashamed of myself, and I don't want to feel that way again.
labels:Was it that something happened, um, where you put something that was really important to you at risk? Is that what that was about, um, when you say you felt guilty, uh, you felt bad talking to Erin on the phone?	text:Because of what-- Yeah, I guess, I think that's what I mean, yeah, yeah. Because you know, I mean- I mean I could have stayed, I could have got, I could have got absolutely hammered and I could have done it every night for the rest of the week.
labels:So you saw yourself putting something that was important to you at risk.	text:But I don't know if I stopped because I knew I had to stop or because, you know, it was like right there, that's where I wanted to stay, you know? Anyway, I just, uh-- [crosstalk].
labels:Here you are actually, three months on, three long months as you say, um, and things have been going really well, Uh, you even get a bit of—	text:They're better, yeah.
labels:Yeah. Well, and then you get the kind of, I don't know if it felt like a green light or a yellow, it went from red to cautionary, you could see your kids, and that was something that was really what you were working for.	text:Yeah, yeah.	episode:True
text:Hello, doctor.	labels:So, what's been different since the last time we talked a week ago?
text:Well, I did what we discussed. I did the journal-	labels:Okay.
text:-for a week, uh, trying to mark down the-the difference in my smoking, being more aware when I had the urge, if I could stop the urge-	labels:Mm.
text:-and I found it was okay. It got a little bit scary on the weekend because, uh, uh, the urge has kept on coming-	labels:Sure.
text:-to have a cigarette.	labels:Sure.
text:But during the week, I was able to cut down at least two or three cigarettes a week, and that's just in one week. So-	labels:So, you've been able to cut down by two or three cigarettes? That's amazing. I mean, given how much you were smoking.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, you were able to keep the, uh, the journal?
text:Yes.	labels:You-- Sounds like you did that, and that allowed you to really focus on the time [unintelligible 00:00:57] delaying your cigarettes. So-so that's gone well. So, what are the things that are not going as well as you'd liked?
text:It just seemed to get worse when it was the weekend-	labels:Right.
text:-and I was going out with friends and I was home a lot of the day-	labels:Yeah.
text:-instead of at work. And I found that, um, it was really hard to stop those urges.	labels:Okay. So, these automatic cigarettes, when you're socializing and you're-- you have time on your hands, really, are the problems that you're facing-
text:Yes.	labels:-uh, and that you've noticed are more difficult than the others?
text:But I marked it in the book. Uh, that's one thing I said to myself, I'll be honest in my marking down.	labels:In marking it down, okay.
text:So, I'm gonna have to really be aware of the weekends. Maybe get some kind of hobby or-or join some group or something on the weekends to keep me busy.	labels:Okay. So, and you've thought about already, what you might do, such as getting a hobby. Any other thoughts of what you might do to help you overcome this?
text:If I can just postpone it-	labels:Okay.
text:-and-and say, "Okay, I'm not gonna have it at home-	labels:Right.
text:-I'll have it when I get to work or on the way to work."	labels:Right.
text:'Cause I-I-I-	labels:Sure.
text:And then, uh-uh, what I'd like to do is try not to smoke in my house.	labels:Okay. So, from now to the next time you come back and see me, what is it that you'd like to-to work on?
text:I think I'd just like to do what I did this first week. I liked the idea of marking it down.	labels:Okay, so you can continue with that.
text:I-- And it took me a week and I'm down two cigarettes a day, I-I figure.	labels:Sure.
text:What I'd like to do is maybe go down to five cigarettes, in other words, another three a day.	labels:Okay.
text:And, um, 'cause I smoke a large pack and small pack, maybe just two small packs.	labels:You said five cigarettes this time.
text:Yes.	labels:And any thoughts about what concretely you could do to make that happen?
text:I can try each day to count.	labels:Right.
text:And I'm still gonna try that when I get the urge to let it go, fight it, and maybe not go out for a cigarette until the next urge comes.	labels:Right. [unintelligible 00:02:58]
text:So, if I [unintelligible 00:02:59] between two of them-	labels:Sure.
text:-and also coming back and-and talking to you really helps 'cause I have someone to-	labels:Sure.
text:-discuss it with.	labels:So, given what you're-you're attempting to do, when would it be good for you to come back and talk about this?
text:I wouldn't mind coming back in a week again because this is all new and-and a week, I can handle a week.	labels:Absolutely. Okay.
text:Okay, thank you doctor.	labels:Good. So, we'll see you in a week.
text:Okay. I guess I've been getting bigger.	labels:Mm, what's that like for you?
text:Uh, scary I guess.	labels:So you're feeling uncomfortable with changes in your body?
text:Yeah. I-I know there's something in there, I just don't know much about him.	labels:Mm.
text:I know you want me to see the doctor, I haven't called yet.	labels:Why do you think it makes you so hesitant to call?
text:I don't know. It seems overwhelming to me.	labels:What about it seems overwhelming?
text:Well, I hate making phone calls and I know I need to fill out all this paperwork. I don't know how to get there and I hate needles.	labels:Mm. So some of your feelings, uh, of being overwhelmed or about the logistics of the appointment, and some of it is you just don't like medical appointments and medical people?
text:Yes.	labels:How can I help you with these things?
text:Can you help me make the call?	labels:Sure, we can do that together.
text:Can you go with me to the appointment.	labels:I can try. I can't guarantee because it depends on my schedule, but we can brainstorm about ideas on who can go with you to support you so you feel better about attending.	episode:True
text:Sure.	labels:Okay. So we're working on a 10 point of scale 1 to 10, 1 being not important, 10 being very important. One being not confident, one being very confident. So on a scale of 1 to 10, which number best reflects how important it is to you to drink the-- what risk limits?
text:I would say an eight.	labels:You'd say an eight. Okay. And on a scale of 1 to 10, how confident are you at the present time that you can drink below risk levels?
text:I would say a four.	labels:Amount of four.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Okay. And so let's look at those two. You're-you're thinking it's pretty important, but your confidence is down here, uh, a four, but it's not a one. What makes you confident that you can drink below risk levels and you remember what those are?
text:Um, I think it's because you've told me I'm at risk and I have alcoholism in my family and I really don't want to go down that path. So I'm-I'm confident that I can change that at this point.	labels:Okay. So that gives you a good reason not to drink. Okay. Anything else?
text:Um, well, I have a group of friends that doesn't drink that I hang out with. And I think when I hang out with them, it's not an issue. So that also helps me.	labels:So you have a support group that gives you the ability to have fun and still drink below risk levels?
text:Yep.	labels:Okay. Anything else?
text:Nope.	labels:Now let's look at your self-evaluation of your birth control. So now we're doing the risk of pregnancy and the use of birth control. So on a scale of 1 to 10, how important is it to you to use effective birth control every time you have sex to keep from getting pregnant?
text:I would say an eight.	labels:An eight. Okay. And on a scale of 1 to 10, how confident are you at the present time that you- that you can use effective birth control?
text:Every time,-	labels:Every time.
text:-probably a six.	labels:Correctly as it's prescribed.
text:Probably a six.	labels:Probably a six. Okay. So you're pretty confident that you can do it. And why are you a six and not a two or three?
text:Um, I'm a six because I think if I drink less, I'll be more reliable with using birth control. I tend to not use it when I'm-- I drank too much and I don't really care too much.	labels:Okay. So it's kind of linked to your drinking, the fact that, um, that you can-- if you can take care of that drinking, you can take care of the-
text:Yeah.	labels:-birth control issue and this importance comes down as your reason why you're not down here.
text:Yes.	labels:Very good. So it looks like, um, you're using a good method of birth control, you're just not able to use it effectively. And you've linked it back here to the drinking. So would you like to develop a plan around your alcohol use at this-- today?
text:Before I leave?	labels:Yes.
text:Okay.	labels:Okay. And if you need more information, we can get that for you.
text:Okay.	labels:Okay.	episode:True
text:Kia ora.	labels:Good to see you here. I see on your file that you're, uh, [unintelligible 00:01:18].
text:Yup. That's right.	labels:What part of the [unintelligible 00:01:22] are you from?
text:I'm from down south.	labels:Oh, okay.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Right down the bottom? Down Bluff?
text:Yes sir. I'm from Invercargill just short of Bluff. All my family is still down there.	labels:Oh, are they? So you were born down there and-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-raised down there?
text:Mm-hmm. Country boy.	labels:Country boy. Been up in Christchurch how long?
text:I've been up here since I was 18.	labels:Oh, so you've been here a while?
text:Just a little while. Yeah.	labels:Oh good. You got family out here?
text:Uh, just my own.	labels:Just your own whānau here. [unintelligible 00:01:51]. Well, Rick, I'm sort of, uh, interested in that, you know, you and I are gonna been doing some work together for a while. I'm sort of wondering what sort of thoughts you'd be having on your way here today.
text:Um, I was thinking about what you might ask me, what I would say. I'm thinking about my kids, thinking about having to take a day off work.	labels:Right.
text:It's a bit of a bitch.	labels:Okay. I see you've had a bit of experience with, uh, coming to prevention services.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:What's that been like for you in the past?
text:Uh, it's been okay. Um, it hasn't been bad.	labels:Right.
text:I don't know. Kind of nothing, really.	labels:Okay. Similar sort of offending in the past that's brought you back again this time?
text:Yeah.	labels:One of the, um, things that I've learned over the years, Rick, is that a lot of guys get to the doors out there and don't come inside and, um, you've come inside. What does that tell me about you?
text:Um, I hope that it says that I want to, um, make some changes.	labels:Yeah.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:So is that different from when you've come in here before?
text:Yeah. And I still had to walk through those doors so-	labels:Yeah.
text:-but, um, I just think about my kids, you know.	labels:Yeah. So they're really important to you?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. And do you have your kids with you full-time or-
text:No. No, I don't. I see them, um, once a fortnight.	labels:Okay. And what's it like for you?
text:It sucks.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:What would you really like to happen in terms of, uh, you and your children?
text:I just-- I'd love to be able to see them whenever I can, whenever I wanted to.	labels:Yeah.
text:You know. I, um, they're my whole world and-and I've fucked things up.	labels:Right.
text:So, you know.	labels:So coming along to see me and you and I are doing some work together, then you're going on to do a program, how important is that gonna be for you and your children?
text:It's really important.	labels:Mm-hmm. If I was to put it on a scale of say 1 to 100, 1 being not really important, 100 being really, really important, whereabouts on that scale would you you be?
text:It's, uh, um, it's hard because-because I'm, uh, I'm not a bad person. I've just done some stupid shit, but I'm not a bad person.	labels:Right.
text:In-in regards to my kids, I'd be100- 100%.	labels:Right.
text:If it means say, I can have my-- see my kids whenever I- whenever I want.	labels:Yeah. What do you think it'd be like for your kids if they were sitting here now and they heard you say that this was really, really important to you and to them? That you gave this program 100%. Well, then what might that be like for them to hear that?
text:Um, I-I-I'd hope that they'd be proud of me. I wouldn't want my kids to see me- to see me here though. But I- But I hope they would be proud of me.	labels:Okay.
text:'Cause I'm-- Yeah.	labels:Good. Anybody else in your family that would be really proud of-- that you're taking these steps?
text:Um, oh, my mom.	labels:Yeah. Your is mum still down south?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Does she know that you're here today?
text:No.	labels:So how might it be for her if she knew that you're talking like this today? That-- 'Cause it sounds to me like you're really serious this time making some changes.
text:Yeah, I am.	labels:Yeah.
text:I just, um, I don't- don't know where to s-- where to start. I don't know.	labels:So do you think doing this program and completing this program this time would be a good place to start?
text:Yeah, I hope so. I-- So I would genuinely want to, I genuinely want to do something to help myself. I don't deliberately fuck things up for myself.	labels:Yeah. So you and I are going to be doing a little bit of work together then. And, um, and sometimes it-it can get quite tough. And I'm just wondering before we go any further, when the going gets tough, a lot of guys bail out. I'm just wondering are you one of those guys?
text:No, this is important to me.	labels:Right.
text:I have, um, I've-- it's important to me.	labels:Good. One of the other things we're really conscious of with is, um, sometimes we do this work in isolation from others. And one of the things we want to ask people is about who they're going to be accountable to. I'm thinking like with your children, uh, your mom and other people that maybe you're interacting with. Who-who else in your life do you think would be supportive of you, and who would you need to let them know that you're actually going through this sort of program?
text:I, um, I'm separated at the moment from my missus and-	labels:What was-- what was your partner's name?
text:Uh, Kirsty.	labels:Kristy.
text:I would- I would love f-f-for her to know that I'm doing this and for her to know that I mean it, but, um, I know she wouldn't give a shit right now actually.	labels:Right. In terms of your employer, would they be supportive?
text:Uh, yeah, I don't know. Maybe, but I don't know if I want them to know though.	labels:Okay. What do you think it might be like for you to explore that with them?
text:Uh, I don't know.	labels:Any other family members that, uh, live close that, uh, you think would be supportive?
text:I'm pretty much by myself up here.	labels:Okay. The reason why I'm asking this, Rick, is just, um, you know, part of, um, uh, being responsible is turning up and doing the program.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:The other aspect of that is kind of like who we're going to be accountable to while we're doing the program. So one of the- one of the challenges, one of the riddle I'm going to put in front of you is like who else can we get involved to support you while you're going through this?
text:Um, I don't know. I don't, um, have that many people-	labels:Okay.
text:-that I am-- I don't have that many people I trust to support me. My mates, I love them but, um, yeah, I don't know.	labels:Okay. So as we're gonna do this work together and go through this, uh, this program, one of the things we-we don't want to do is fall into the same trough we did last time. So I-I just want to leave that with you to think about next time we come together. There may be two or three other people that you think of that can be really supportive, that we-we need to let know that you're [unintelligible 00:10:50] each gonna make these changes and this time, you're serious about it. So let your mother and, uh, and, um, your partner, how might that happen? How does that sound to you?
text:Yeah, let's give it some thought.	labels:Rick, I get a sense that you're kind of padding this walk a little bit on your own at the moment. Would that be true?
text:Yeah. That'll definitely be true.	labels:Your family is down south. I mean,who-who-who else do you think would be really interested in sup-supporting you, rowing with you if you like on this journey?
text:Uh, I have a good relationship with my mum,-	labels:Okay.
text:-with my brothers and sisters.	labels:Yeah.
text:My mum is actually pretty important to me.	labels:Yeah. How would it be for your mum, do you think, if you were to tell her that this is something that you're-- is really important for you and that you know that this time you really need to do this for her and for the family? What-what might that be like for her to hear?
text:I think she'd be proud of me.	labels:Yeah. All right.
text:Yeah.	labels:Brothers and sisters, that, uh, would also be very supportive if you were to make this journey?
text:Yeah. Yeah. A good, uh, good family.	labels:Good. So how would you go about getting them to support you, to come on board, and be accountable to doing this work together?
text:Um, I don't know. Um, have some-somebody just to listen.	labels:And, um, I’m just trying to imagine what do you think your mom would want to say to you if she was sitting here with us now and she heard you talking about this?
text:She would- she would tell me that she loves me. She would tell me that she believes that I could do it.	labels:Mm. What do you think she might want for you, like upon her for your children?
text:For them to have a father they can look up to.	labels:I’m getting a strong sense that's what you want as well.
text:It is what I want. Definitely.	labels:So, in terms of having the confidence to do this with the support of your whānau and ours, where do you think your confidence level might be now?
text:If I had their support of my-my family and [silence] I want to say that would be higher. I just know I fucked it up in the past. If they were there to support me now, then I’d be 99% sure.	labels:That's a huge move up the scale, isn't it? So getting your family on board, getting your whānau on board is going to be really important for us.
text:Yeah, I'm all right.	labels:Yeah. Hey, it's good to see you here and good to see you here on time. Yeah, it's really good to see a good start to the-- to your probation time with us here is to see you being here on time. So how did you get here today?
text:Just caught the bus.	labels:Yeah, caught the bus to-to that-- to the stop outside the office?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, okay. So I'm noticing that this isn't the first time that you've been to see someone at probation and it's not your first, um, community sentence. So I was wondering when you're sitting on the bus thinking about coming here, what was- what was going through your head about being here?
text:Just a waste of my time.	labels:Just was feeling like, "Ugh, it's gonna be a waste of my time coming here."
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Mmh. So how come you thought it was going to be a waste of your time? What was it based on?
text:Last time didn't really work out that well.	labels:Yeah, didn't- didn't work out very well.
text:Nothing really helped me.	labels:Okay. So you're hoping that it was gonna help you and it didn't. That was-- ended up feeling like a waste of your time.
text:Yeah.	labels:Mm. So it sounds you're worried that it's gonna be a waste of your time this time too.
text:Yeah, I'd say so.	labels:Mm, okay. So what sort of things do you think made it a waste of time last time?
text:She didn't really listen to me, just told me what to do. She just bossed me around.	labels:Okay, the probation officer we're talking about here?
text:Yeah, yeah, yeah.	labels:Mm. So it felt like she bossed you around, didn't really listen to you.
text:Yeah, she didn't really care.	labels:Okay, so actually having someone listen to you and hear about what you're saying is important to you?
text:Yeah.	labels:Mm. So what's it gonna be like do you think working with me 'cause I'm also a female probation officer? Um, I'm wondering what-what's it gonna be like do you think?
text:I-I don't care that you're a woman. It's just- it's that you don't know what it's like to be me.	labels:Okay.
text:You have a different upbringing and live in a different place of town. Just-	labels:Yeah.
text:-you wouldn't understand.	labels:Okay, and all of those things are true.
text:Yeah.	labels:You're right. I don't know what it's like to be you and what I'm getting a sense of is that it's actually important that the person sitting opposite you in this role needs to understand what it's like to be you. Is that right?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, okay. So I guess the invitation for both of us really over the next few months of, um, on the sentence is for us to get an understanding about what it's like to be you.
text:Yeah, so it is.	labels:Yeah, okay. So in terms of the things that have brought you here, in terms of the things that have got you into trouble and got you into offending, I'm wondering how interested you are in, um, really getting an understanding of it. So one or zero is like, "Ugh, not interested at all."
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:100 is like, "I'm totally interested and-and getting it nailed and sorted and, you know, getting on the straight and narrow." Where would you be on that scale?
text:Well, not too high. It's not like I'm out killing people or anything. It's just-	labels:Okay.
text:-silly stuff.	labels:All right. So it's kind of silly stuff that's getting you into trouble.
text:Yeah.	labels:Is that what I'm hearing? Yeah. So in terms of dealing with it, where-where would you be, do you reckon? How interested would you be in dealing with that stuff?
text:Mm, lots. When I stop getting caught. Don't wanna be back here again.	labels:Okay, so you don't wanna be back here. You don't wanna be sitting here and-
text:No.	labels:-to talk to a probation officer again.
text:No, sorry.	labels:Okay. So where would you be do you think?
text:Mm, like what out of a scale it would like fall?	labels:Zero being, "Argh, not interested at all," 100 being totally into it.
text:Mmh, 25.	labels:25, okay.
text:Mmh.	labels:So I know that you're kind of 25% interested-
text:Mmh.	labels:-and really thinking about what's got you into trouble and hence something about what gets you into trouble.
text:Maybe but, mm, yeah, I wanna stop getting into trouble.	labels:You wanna stop getting into trouble.
text:Yeah, but I don't think what I'm doing is that bad.	labels:Mm, okay.
text:Just unlucky.	labels:Okay, so getting into trouble and, uh, getting caught and-and we see [unintelligible 00:05:36] does about luck and this time being unlucky.
text:Yeah, the cops just have it out for me.	labels:Yes, tell me a bit more about that, Billy? Kind of give me the [unintelligible 00:05:46] the cops have got it on for you?
text:Just 'cause growing up dealing with them and my mates and stuff and there's, you know, guilty before charged or whatever.	labels:Mm, so it feels like you always seemed singled out and, um, end up being unlucky.
text:Yeah, me and my mates always get singled out.	labels:Okay, so you get singled out and that's what, um, means that you end up getting-- having to go to court and get sentenced and end on probation.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. So I'm wondering, um, if there are things that you think, "Well, I can see that that's got me into trouble," and, you know, kind of cops aside, things that might have got you into-into trouble.
text:Just jacking cars and just stealing just, like, stuff and smokes and got done for that.	labels:Mm-hmm, okay. So some stuff that you can think, "Oh yeah, I had, you know, I did some stuff that yeah, got me into trouble."
text:Yeah.	labels:It wasn't perhaps about the police singling you out. So those little things, well, you think, "Mm, yeah, maybe-maybe if I'd done something differently, I wouldn't have ended up in trouble." How interested are you in thinking about those things and-
text:Yeah, well, I-	labels:-trying to get a handle on that.
text:-wanna stop getting in trouble. Don't wanna-	labels:Yeah.
text:-end up in prison for the rest of my life for doing stupid little things.	labels:Okay, so you don't wanna end up kind of being in prison again 'cause you've done some time inside. Yeah, and you don't wanna end up going back to prison, yeah. So-so that's one thing about wanting to make a difference and the way things are at the moment, yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:Cool. What else would, um, would help to kind of keep you out of trouble do you think?
text:Get some income, some good cash or something.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:A nice job.	labels:Yeah.
text:A good-- yeah.	labels:So the things about that have got you into trouble in the past, um, how confident are you that, um, that you can do something to not keep going down the same path? Zero is like, "I'm not confident at all that I can make any changes," and 100 is like, "I'm so supremely confident." Where would you be?
text:Pretty confident if I had a good job but otherwise, probably have to keep stealing stuff, I don't know.	labels:Okay.
text:So it depends.	labels:All right, so if you were in a good job-
text:Yeah.	labels:-one with cars, one that-
text:Yeah, yeah, yeah.	labels:-you really liked, you feel that you would be pretty confident to deal with the stuff that gets you into trouble?
text:Yeah, yeah, yeah, 'cause it's just small stuff that, you know, just 'cause I don't have any cash.	labels:Okay, so you don't have any cash and that's the stuff that causes you to do the small stuff-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and get you into trouble.
text:Yeah, just stupid little shit, yeah.	labels:Okay, so if you had a job, you feel pretty confident, but if you don't have a job, your confidence is much-is much lower, is that-
text:Yeah.	labels:-what I'm hearing? Yeah.
text:Yeah, no. That's-	labels:Okay.
text:-not an excuse but, yeah, I'll probably keep doing it. Just try not to get caught.	labels:Okay, so if you don't have a job you reckon, um, you'll probably gonna keep on offending.
text:Yeah. Yeah, I just get bored and stuff.	labels:Okay, so part of this, what's going on is you also getting bored?
text:Yeah, I get bored real easy.	labels:Mmh. Yeah, say something more about that. It sounds really interesting about you knowing that you get bored really easily.
text:I don't know. I got a short attention span or something.	labels:Yeah, what-what makes you say that?
text:Uh, just can't sit around home all day. I'd wanna go out and do something exciting.	labels:Okay, so you wanna kind of get some action, don't wanna sit around-
text:Mmh.	labels:-all the time. But one of the things I'm noticing, we've been going here for a wee while now talking and, uh, I haven't noticed any lack of attention.
text:Just talking about something I like. Like talking about cars is all good.	labels:Okay, so we [unintelligible 00:09:47] something that interests you.
text:Yeah.	labels:Mmh, and when we might be talking about something that doesn't interest you, what would I notice?
text:I probably just wouldn't listen.	labels:Okay. All right, so-so one of the challenges is for us to be talking about things that interest you. Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, and also maybe get to the point where things are different in your life Where you're not getting into trouble and things feel a bit more sorted in your life.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Hi, Billy, how are you doing? It's good to see you again.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, how's things been?
text:Well, not too bad. Yeah, getting out of trouble.	labels:Okay. So you're keeping out of trouble.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, so how'd you get here this time? Like 'cause other times you got the bus? What-what did you do this time?
text:Ah, I got a lift from Donna. She's-	labels:Oh yeah. Who's- who's Donna? You haven't mentioned Donna before.
text:Like she's my new girlfriend.	labels:Oh okay. Tell us something about Donna.
text:Ah, just met her a few weeks ago and she's just, uh, real cool. She's really nice. Yeah, get along with her really well.	labels:Hmm, you get along with her really well.
text:Yeah.	labels:So what's special about Donna?
text:Donna is easy to talk to unlike other girls that I don't really get along with. Uh, she's like and a good friend too so-	labels:Oh okay. So someone who's both a friend and a girlfriend?
text:Yeah. I can hang out with her and stuff and she gets all my mates and stuff. So it's all good.	labels:Hmm, yeah. It's really special when you find someone who can be both a friend and girlfriend, eh.
text:Yeah, and I'm lucky.	labels:Yeah. You were made to say you're lucky.
text:She's just a really nice girl.	labels:Hmm. Okay, so she dropped you off here today.
text:Yeah, it's good of her.	labels:So what does she think about you coming here?
text:She thinks it's good. Yeah. Uh, she doesn't want to get in trouble and stuff.	labels:She doesn't want to get you in trouble and I heard you say earlier on that you've been keeping out of trouble.
text:Yeah, I was just getting busy with her and stuff. So it's all good.	labels:So what sort of things have you been doing together?
text:Just, uh, just hanging out. Just watching movies and stuff just, I don't know, gives me something to do.	labels:Okay. Gives you something to do. So we talked like back on that first time we met about how you reckon you've got a short attention span and like things to like to be doing things.
text:Yeah.	labels:So you're watching movies with her, you're hanging out?
text:It's, yeah, just chilling with her. It's good.	labels:Yeah, and keeping-keeping out of trouble.
text:Yeah mostly, yeah.	labels:Okay, what's the mostly?
text:Uh, you know, [chuckles] mostly.	labels:Mm-hmm. So when you say mostly, it kind of leaves a little bit of room for there to be some trouble.
text:Yeah.	labels:Am I picking that up?
text:Oh no, just stupid stuff. Just when she like-- she has to go to work and stuff, so I have to keep myself busy.	labels:Okay, so she's- she's got a job.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, what does she do?
text:She just works the whole day just typing numbers and stuff.	labels:Mm-hmm. So kind of 9:00 to 5:00 sort of job.
text:Yeah. She actually goes there four days a week though.	labels:All right.
text:So we get to chill on Friday.	labels:Mm-hmm. So you two get to spend Friday together and the weekend.
text:Yeah.	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay, so when she's at work, what happens then?
text:Well, uh, sleeping and then, I don't know, catch up my mates if they're not doing anything and just get up to mischief with them.	labels:Mm-hmm. So what sort of mischief are we talking about here, Billy?
text:It's, uh, [unintelligible 00:13:34] for the cars out there, [unintelligible 00:13:36] no not-not normally. Yeah.	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay, so you're kind of skating on the edges of getting in trouble again.
text:Yeah, I'm being careful though so-	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay. So I'm wondering how much of what you do on Fridays you tell Donna.
text:But what do you mean?	labels:Well, if we're talking about this idea about kind of scaling around the edges of trouble again,-
text:Mm.	labels:- I'm wondering if she knows that.
text:No, not really.	labels:So what do you reckon would happen if she knew?
text:She'd tell me off.	labels:She'd tell you off.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:Well, what-what are her hopes for you, Billy?
text:Uh, okay, she wants me to be happy, I don't know. Me to get a job or something. So, get a nice car we could cruise around in it.	labels:Mm-hmm. Yeah. So she wants you to be happy.
text:Yeah.	labels:So what would- what would like a really happy life for Billy look like?
text:Just be able to buy her stuff. Nice car, nice house.	labels:Mm-hmm. A nice car, a nice house. Mm-hmm, what else? What must be a happy life for Billy?
text:Just and it'd be good just me, her and just be able to provide for her would be cool.	labels:Mm-hmm, okay. So in five years' time, it's fast forward to the future. Five years time, how would you like it to be?
text:Just settle down and maybe have some kids or something, family life.	labels:Okay. So, you'd be with Donna, and you'd have a house, and you settle down, maybe have some kids?
text:Yeah. It'd be cool.	labels:Yes? So, it sounds like having children is something you've thought about? Um.
text:Yeah, I know she'd be a good mum, yeah. So—	labels:Mm-hmm. She'd be a good mum?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah? What sort of dad do you reckon you'd be?
text:I'd be all right.	labels:Mm-hmm. Yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:What would be special about you as a dad?
text:Uh, I wouldn't boss them around.	labels:You wouldn't boss them around?
text:No.	labels:Mm-hmm. That's something- that's something that's come up before with-with-- when we've been talking about that idea about not liking being bossed around.
text:Yeah.	labels:What's that about, Billy?
text:I don't know. It's just like-- My dad was really strict on me when I was little, and I don't want to be like that.	labels:Okay, I see. You wanna be a different sort of dad-
text:Yeah.	labels:-to-to the dad that you had?
text:Mm.	labels:Yeah. Okay.	episode:True
text:Well, I'm glad I don't have any of that.[laughter]	labels:You're a lucky man.
text:Thank you.	labels:So, um, it also, um-- Anyway, it's-it's when people are just saying, "Um, you know, this is why I don't wanna change. You know, I'm happy the way that I am. You know, it's, you know, um, God made it that marijuana stuff," you know, things like that. So-
text:Yeah, okay.	labels:-so, you're gonna, um, play with me a little bit and, um-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and you're gonna—
text:Well, you were asking me why I don't like to take my medicine.	labels:Right. So, you're-you're a, um-um, a patient who's been diagnosed with some s- maybe schizophrenia, bipolar.
text:I like to call it mild schizophrenia.	labels:Okay, mild schizophrenia is fine. Good. Okay, so-
text:And-and-and, uh—	labels:-just a touch.
text:Yeah, just a little schizophrenia. I'm-I'm-- But, I'm okay with it, and so am I.	labels:Okay. [laughs] And-and-and, uh, if you wanted to maybe even, you know, a little drinking and weed in there 'cause it's also very kind. [crosstalk]
text:Oh, that makes me f-- Yeah, that makes me feel-	labels:Okay.
text:-relaxed.	labels:Yeah.
text:I need that.	labels:Yeah.
text:Um-	labels:Okay.
text:-I gotta be relaxed, you know-	labels:Yeah.
text:-if-if you had, you know- if you had to ride around in the back of a garbage truck all day like I do-	labels:Yeah.
text:-uh, it's, uh- it's stressful, you know. [clears throat] But, the doctor- you know, the other doctor put me on this medicine and-and I gotta take it every day. And, I-I don't like it. Uh, I'll just be honest with you, I don't like it.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:It doesn't-- I don't like the way it makes you feel, um, I don't like the way it makes me act, and it's taken my sex drive, and just thrown it at the back of the garbage truck.	labels:Well, that is a bummer. I mean—
text:It is.	labels:So you said the-the first one you said, you don't like the way it makes you feel?
text:Right.	labels:So, tell me a little bit about what you don't like about- what you've noticed about it?
text:Well, i-it's kinda like I'm in kind of a dreamy world. I-it kind of, I don't know, i-it just seems like I'm kinda like living in the middle of a cotton ball or something like that, where just things are kinda soft and, I don't know, I-- It just, the-the spice of life doesn't seem to be there. It seems like everything's bland, and nothing really-- Food doesn't taste the same, and things don't smell right, and—	labels:Very dull.
text:Very dull.	labels:Very dull.
text:Very dull.	labels:Yeah.
text:That's a good way to sum it up. And it's-- Well, you understand it, uh, it's just- it's not good.	labels:Mm. So, and then you said, you don't like how it makes you act, um, if you can tell me a little bit about that.
text:Well, I feel like it's taken part of my personality and just thrown it away. I don't really feel like I'm all there, right. You know, like, um, I like to be spontaneous and funny, and-and all that night, and I- and I don't-- You know, by the time I come up with a-a funny remark to the situation, everybody's left the room, and-[laughter]-stuff like that. And-and-- [chuckles]	labels:It's really, your timing is [unintelligible 00:03:13]
text:Absolutely.	labels:So you feel slow.
text:And so, as you can can tell, I didn't take my medication today, I'm-I'm-I'm really on my game today. So.	labels:So, it's, you know, thinking as quickly and responding as quickly and-and things like that-- [crosstalk]
text:More like takes the edge off-	labels:Yeah.
text:-for sure.	labels:Yeah.
text:Well, you understand that.	labels:Yeah.
text:You-you can- you can understand why I don't take it.	labels:To tell you, it sounds terrible, actually. Yeah. So, that that-that really-- And then- and then, to top it all off, literally, I mean, no sex drive.
text:Right-right.	labels:And-and your wife, what does she have to say about that?
text:Well, she wants to know who I am and what did I do with her husband.	labels:Yeah. Where's Scott? Where did- where did Scott go? That feisty, spirited guy, where- where'd he go?
text:Yeah.	labels:With the libido out the door.
text:Yeah. And, uh- and so, she-- Actually, she-- When I first went on the medicine, she thought I was maybe messing around with somebody else, 'cause, I-I just wasn't interested in it at all.	labels:Oh, okay.
text:I canceled my subscription to the spice channel.	labels:I didn't even know they had a spice channel. [chuckles]
text:I don't know if they still have it or not. [chuckles]	labels:So they-- So, um, before you started taking the medication, though, when she was, you know, um-- Even though now she's like, "Where is my old Scott," and stuff, well, were there any times when she wanted you to go on the medication? And, if so, what-what prompted those?
text:Well, if I stay off the medication too long, I-- Some people might say there's a problem with that, you know.	labels:You were right.
text:Well, I guess running around the neighborhood with no clothes on isn't really good.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, I thought I had a, uh—	labels:Might get you into trouble [unintelligible 00:05:06]
text:Yeah, well, I thought I had my gym shorts on, but they said that I didn't.	labels:Okay. What else?
text:Well, I-I ended up in the hospital.	labels:What do you think about the hospital?
text:Don't like that hospital.	labels:No.
text:Uh. [clears throat] I'm not sure that the hospital is worse than the cotton ball, but I don't like it either.	labels:So, you'd really like to stay out of that hospital?
text:Well, I got a question for you. You're a doctor, why don't you guys come up with some- something else besides either being in the hospital or taking this stuff every day, can you come up with something? I mean, you guys, we put a man on the moon 50 years ago, I mean, and you still got to give me this stuff that makes me feel like a-a zombie with-- That hasn't had a drink or water in four days, it-it just doesn't seem right. Either you guys ought to come up with something better. That's what I think.	labels:I agree with you, I really do. So-- And I- and I think that a lot of times, um, the medications, they do have a lot of side effects, and I completely understand why people don't wanna take them-
text:Yeah.	labels:Yet, at the same time, I know running around and getting in trouble for being naked or having to go to the hospital, not such a good thing either. Um, I'm wondering if, um- if I could run some ideas by you that some other patients of mine have tried?
text:I suppose.	labels:Okay, thanks. Um, we could if you're-- 'Cause, as you can tell, this is really more of an art than a science, um, try some other medications and see how you do on them, and perhaps, you won't have these side effects. And, um, it-it really is just a matter of kind of experimenting around to get, uh, to see if we can get to a point that at least you're not having these really bad things happen of getting into the hospital and getting arrested and stuff versus feeling more like that-that spirited Scott that, you know, watches Spice channel, you know, I mean-- Because I can tell the spirit of Scott is, uh, a hoot.
text:Well. Yeah. Well, yeah, I-I'd like to. I don't know, is it-- Can you- can you drink with them, some of these other ones?	labels:Well, you know, uh, Scott, well, tell me a little bit since you brought that up. Yeah, obviously, drink and tell me a little bit about your [unintelligible 00:07:35]
text:Well, I don't really drink like people-- Like some alcoholic or something but, I do—	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I-I like to take the edge off-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:You know, with a few drinks, you know, not-not a lot, you know, and-and really-	labels:How-how often do you do that?
text:Not every day.	labels:Maybe every other day?
text:Maybe.	labels:Okay.
text:Maybe not, uh-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:You know, it's not all the time, it's-it's not- it's not a problem.	labels:Okay.
text:Certainly not a problem.	labels:How would you know if it was a problem?
text:Well, if I was like getting arrested for drunk driving.	labels:So, if you got a DUI, you would really know.
text:Well, that's what alcoholics do. I'm not an alcoholic.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, I'm just- yeah I just like to have a few drinks. I mean, you know, obviously, I-I have, uh, this diagnosed condition, and-and I think, you know, if I were able to, you know, maybe take a few hits off of the joint and have a couple of beers, I think that's about the same as taking the medicine.	labels:Well, you know, what, I-- There are a lot of people that wouldn't disagree with you on that exactly. You know, so, um, uh, but I know that they-they were never quite sure how they were all interacting all together. Like the, um- the weed kind of tends to make people a little paranoid anyway.
text:Yeah, I-I-I got to be careful with it. If I take more than a hit or two of it, it-it-it can be a bit of a problem.	labels:Yeah. Why, what happens if you take a little too much of it?
text:I get edgy.	labels:Yeah.
text:I-I-I get edgy.	labels:Yeah. And you don't like that?
text:No-no. I'd-I'd like to just be normal as well. I'd real-- I'd like to just be normal where I don't have to take medicine, and I don't end up in the hospital three times a year, and I don't find myself in the neighbor's yard—	labels:Running around naked.
text:With a statue. It's—	labels:Okay.
text:They were really ticked about that statue thing this time, and I don't know why I keep going back over there, but—	labels:You must like that statue.
text:I really don't, but, apparently, when I'm in that state, uh, there's something about it, I'm not sure.	labels:So, if-if-if we could maybe find a medication that didn't give you as bad side effects, perhaps you might not have to drink as much or at all or smoke a little weed to take the edge off. I mean, who knows? [unintelligible 00:09:55]
text:Well, maybe. I-I-I guess that's possible.	labels:Yeah.	episode:True
labels:You're hopeless about what's going on.	text:Mm. I just feel helpless about this whole deal.
labels:You seem at a loss of where to go from here.	text:No one wants to help me.
labels:You feel like people aren't willing to help.	text:No one wants to help me.
labels:You feel alone.	text:Mm-hmm. I really shouldn't have done it.
labels:You realize it's something you shouldn't have done.	text:Mm-hmm. I really shouldn't have done it.
labels:You're feeling regretful.	text:Mm-hmm. I couldn't help myself.
labels:Uh, it's something that just happened.	text:I couldn't help myself.
labels:You're nervous that you've lost control of your behaviors.	text:It's actually been a fabulous week.
labels:You've really had a good week.	text:It's actually been a fabulous week.
labels:You seem excited about that.	text:Mm-hmm. I know who to hang out with, I'm not stupid.
labels:You definitely know how to make good decisions.	text:I know who to hang out with, I'm not stupid.
labels:You know that, um, positive peer influences have been helpful for you.	text:Mm-hmm. I'm letting the whole family down. They had such high hopes for me.
labels:You feel like you're letting your family down.	text:Mm-hmm. I'm letting my whole family down. They had such high hopes for me.
labels:You feel like you've been a disappointment for them.	text:Mm-hmm. This is not what I want for my life.
labels:This is not what you've envisioned.	text:This is not what I want for my life.
labels:You're willing to take steps to improve on that.	text:Mm-hmm. I really want to get off the program.
labels:You don't want to be here.	text:I really want to get off the program.
labels:You seem motivated to follow the rules.	text:Mm-hmm. I still crave smoking, even though I've stopped.
labels:It's something that's always on your mind.	text:I still crave smoking, even though I've stopped.
labels:It takes a lot of, um, strength to still not smoke, even though you're still craving.	text:Mm-hmm.	episode:True
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-and then we just talk together about that. So, um, but I always like to just start with wherever you would like to start as well.
text:Um, yeah, I, [sigh] that, I mean, like, when I was doing those questionnaires, it was weird because, I mean, I guess I don't really think about, like, you know, the drinking being, like, this huge deal and I don't-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-ever really think about, like-like, how much I drink.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um, and, like, fi- like filling out, like, how much I'm drinking every day, it was like, whoa, you know-	labels:Hm.
text:-like, I just didn't ever really think about it, like, that I was-- like, if I try to actually count the drinks, it's, kind of, a lot, I mean, it's, kind of, a lot.	labels:You were pretty shocked at what you learned about your patterns.
text:Well, yeah, 'cause, like, I also, kind of, thought that, like, I drink, like, about as much as my friends did and then, like, I went back and I was, like, talking to my roommate about it and I was, like, telling her that, you know, I was drinking, like, like 10 drinks on the weekends, like, including Thursday, so like, Thursday, Friday-	labels:Hm.
text:-Saturday, Sunday.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And then she was like, "Sarah, that's cra-- Like, that is crazy. Why are, you know, like, where are you drinking this?" And I was- I was like, "Well, you know, like, different places." And I-I guess, like, I don't know, my friends didn't, like, know. Anyway, it's, yeah, I don't know.	labels:Yeah, this information has opened your eyes in some ways and as you talked to your roommate about it, she was even shocked to know that you were drinking as much as you- as you realized when you did the questionnaire.
text:Yeah, and yeah, I guess it was just like, I thought that everybody was, like, doing it, you know-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-but that's not really what was going on. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah, the fact that your drinking stands out from others is clearly not something you had ever really taken into consideration before?
text:Yeah.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah, so, that was the thing that, like, was really the most weird about doing those-	labels:Okay.
labels:So, um, everyone that comes on the South Whisky program, we'd like them to pick at least three goals that they'd like to work on in the next 30 days. Because what we will do is we will monitor you and we'll check in 30 days to see how you're going with your goals. So with that being said, we want you to pick something that is relevant for you, something that you're willing to work on. So with that being said, is there anything that you would like to change your work on either at home or school, um, [unintelligible 00:00:30]?	text:Um, I have to start getting the school on time for my first hour. I always miss that class.
labels:Okay, so for you getting on time for first hour is something you'd like to work on the next 30 days?	text:Yes.
labels:Okay. What a great goal. So why do you want to make this goal for yourself?	text:Uh, so people will get off my back.
labels:And who are these people?	text:My mom she's always saying, you know, get to school. My PO will be like, you know, if you don't get the school on time, I can bring you back in for sanctions and I don't want to go back in.
labels:So that's something you definitely wanna avoid?	text:Yes.
labels:Okay. So getting to school for your first hour is something that you're going to work on as your goal.	text:I will try.
labels:So what are some specific steps you would need to take to get to school on time for first hour?	text:I can't ever get up in the morning. So that's hard and then by the time I do get up, and then I get ready and get dressed, I miss the bus. So then I usually end up walking or see if I can find a ride. So it could be a bunch of different reasons why I'm late.
labels:Okay, so it's not just one major thing?	text:No.
labels:So knowing that a couple of things can really get in your way, what do you think would work best for you to get to school on time? What do you know you need to do?	text:Get up on time would probably be a good start of making me get there on time.
labels:What time would you need to get up then?	text:[sighs] If I'm gonna catch the bus I'll probably need to be up by 6:15 and sometimes that's just so hard to do, 'cause I go to bed so late and I don't know if I can do it.
labels:So you're still kind of unsure if this is something that you could do yet you're saying you really wanna do it because you don't wanna go back for sanctions.	text:Right. I could try-
labels:Okay.	text:- and see how it goes.
labels:Okay, so you're willing to at least attempt it?	text:Yes.
labels:So what time would you have to go to bed at night to make sure you're up by 6:15?	text:I go about midnight now, so if I tried maybe 11:00. I can try 11:00.
labels:Okay. Okay, so you're willing to go to bed at 11:00 and then you're going to set your alarm for 6:15 the next morning?	text:Yes.
labels:When would be a great day for you to start this?	text:Uh, either tomorrow or the next day.
labels:Okay, so if I would write down here, um, what do you think- what would you want me to write? Tomorrow or the next day?	text:Let's start tomorrow.
labels:Tomorrow. Okay, great. So who would be able to help you get to bed on time and make sure you're up on time by 6:15?	text:My mom.
labels:Your mom.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Okay. Anything that your mom could do to help you with that?	text:[sighs] She can after my alarm goes off, if I don't get up, she could come in and wake me up and remind me that I said to you that I'm going to get up so that I have to do it.
labels:So it's almost like you want your mom to make it say that this is for you. It's not because your mom's making you get up like you want your mom to remind you, "Hey, remember, this is something that you want for yourself is to be in time for first-hour class".	text:Exactly. Yup.
labels:Great. What could maybe get in the way of you not getting up by 6:15?	text:[sighs] Not going to bed on time.
labels:Not going to bed on time.	text:Yup, that's gonna be a struggle for me.
labels:Okay. So if you are feeling tempted to stay up later-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:- how could you respond instead?	text:Just go to bed and turn off the lights, don't have my phone.
labels:Okay, so a phone is a distraction for you. So keeping your phone away-	text:Oh, yeah.
labels:- and even actually turning the lights off and making sure that it's dark?	text:Yes.
labels:Kind of a reminder it's time to go to bed.	text:Have my mom check on me to make sure everything's put away.
labels:And-and also the support of your mom too.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Great. So how will you know that you-your plan is working?	text:When I'm at school on time, when the bell rings and I'm in class.
labels:So for you being in your class, when that bell rings, then you know, this is the goal.	text:Absolutely.
labels:So what I've been hearing so far- what again, what a great goal. You've already had some insight of how to do this. So for you, it's really important that you're getting to your first hour because you don't want to go back to sanction days. You don't having- like having all these extra people checking up on you and all those things.You've already have a plan of going to bed by 11:00, turning off the lights, putting your cell phone away. Even the support of your mom is really gonna be helpful for you, um, getting up at 6:15 in the morning with that alarm. I know that seems really early in the morning, but you seem willing to do it. And if you're not able to do it, your mom's gonna help you out as well.	text:Well, yeah, I hope so.
labels:What a great plan and you said you're going to start tomorrow.	text:I'll give it a try.
labels:Great. Well, thank you.	text:You're welcome.	episode:True
text:Well, my wife is making me be here today. Uh, she thinks that it's a problem that I'm smoking weed, so she said, "You need to go and get some help."	labels:Okay. Um, so you said that your wife said it's a problem. Um, so do you not feel like it's a problem for you?
text:No, I don't think it's a problem at all. It's something I do to help me relax. In fact, I think it's something that is good for me, but—	labels:Okay. Can you tell me a little bit more about how, like, it's-it's not an issue for you?
text:Yeah. You know, like I said, you know, I'll come home, I'll, you know, smoke a couple rolls after a long day or something. I'm able to just relax, not really think about things. You know what I mean? I'm still working and, you know, paying the bills. We have a house, so I don't- I don't know why it's a problem.	labels:Okay. Um, is it causing any problems in areas like your marriage or anything like that?
text:I mean, I guess a little bit, you know, like-- I mean, she's the one that-that has me being here. We've been fighting about it, you know. Uh, uh, I don't know, I-I guess I'm-I'm getting pretty frustrated with her. She just won't get off my back about it. So I finally said, "Fine, I'll go see someone."	labels:Okay. Um, so are you here to maybe work on your marriage? Is that an area that you are wanting to-to work on?
text:Uh, I mean, I'm just here because she said that I need to be in here. So, I mean, yeah, I wanna save my marriage, you know.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And, I mean, I love her, you know, but I'm here because she's making me be here.	labels:Okay. Um, what is it that you wanna get out of being here?
text:Um, I mean, I guess- I guess I need some strategies for figuring out how to ease stress without, I guess, getting high.	labels:Okay. And that's a very good reason for being here. Um, can you talk to me about maybe some of your-- the goals that you have?
text:Well, I mean, I just failed the UA at work. Uh, I think I failed UA at work. I don't know. I-I use- I use some stuff that was [inaudible 00:02:00] not my system. But-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I don't- I don't think it's gonna work. And so I really liked to be able to keep my job.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um, I'd l- I'd like to stop fighting with my wife. Um-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-I guess those are my big goals.	labels:Okay. Um, do you see your substance use as being, um, maybe a cause of those other issues at all? Do you see them linked at all?
text:I mean, yeah, I guess- I guess if I think about it, that's kind of the common theme.	labels:Okay. Okay, um, how do you think that your substance use is going to affect your employment?
text:I'm pretty worried that I'm gonna get fired.	labels:Okay.
text:I don't- I don't really know. We're the only shop in town that-that does the work that we use. So I don't- I don't know what else I'm gonna go do.	labels:Okay.
text:So—	labels:Okay. Um, and if you lost your job, what do you see being the consequences of that?
text:Um, my wife might leave me. Uh, might lose the house. Um, can't pay my bills.	labels:Okay. Do you see that at all as being affected by the substance use?
text:Yeah, it's probably- it's probably the reason why all that's happening. I mean-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-If I lose my job, it's 'cause I failed the UA, so—	labels:Okay. Um, so can you talk to me a little bit about, um, maybe where you wanna be 90 days from now? What do you want your life to look like?
text:I'll still have a job.	labels:Okay.
text:Still have a wife and, uh, yeah, if I-- If those two things can happen then, you know—	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I mean, I know if-if I lose my job, she leaving me. She's been getting after me about smoking weed for a long time, so—	labels:Okay. So that's where you wanna get to. Um, what do you think that you need to do in the next, like, month or so to maybe help going in that direction?
text:Probably need to go talk to my boss and start taking some steps not to lose it.	labels:Okay.	episode:True
text:Um, I mean, it was just the, like a social gathering. It wasn't like I was looking for it, uh, the drinks were there and I-- all my friends were doing it and it was just-- it's-it's not something that I like do occa- on occasion, but whenever the opportunity presents itself, it-it's nice to just let loose and have a little bit of fun sometimes.	labels:But, Tommy, there's so many consequences with drinking. You know, you're not even 21 yet, you could get arrested, you could, you know, have a drunk driving accident. You could, you know, mess up your schoolwork. You have such a bright future ahead of you. It just really, really concerns me.
text:I-I get what you're coming from, but I-I-I really did. I-I thought that I had it under control and I didn't let myself get too far gone. I-I didn't want to be, um, how do I put this? Like, I want it to be in control and I wanted to make sure that all my friends were okay, so I didn't let myself drink too much.	labels:There's really no such thing as not drinking too much. I mean, anything that's drinking when you're underage is drinking too much, you know. Like, think about it, think about all the things that can happen to you.
text:Yeah. I-I understand exactly what you're saying. And—	labels:How much are you drinking?
text:I-I don't think I'm drinking that much. I mean, it's-it's mainly for social gatherings. Like it's nothing that I do, like by myself or whatever. It's just the—	labels:Is it like every weekend?
text:Every other weekends, I would say.	labels:Tommy, I'm just so concerned, you know, can't you think of anything better to do?
text:Um, I-I guess I can. I-I can probably be more productive in my schoolwork and rather than going out to parties as much and I-I do get you're coming from and—	labels:Yeah. Is-- are your friends the problem, like maybe you should just start hanging out with more kids in the youth group and not hang out with those kids that you were partying with?
text:Yeah, I guess I haven't really put it on myself. I guess it's really been forced on their account. And I've just been following in their footsteps just to-- just because it seems like what they're doing is a lot of fun. And I just want to make sure that I'm getting every bit of the high school experience that I can.	labels:Well, there's a lot of things that seem fun in the moment that we know aren't a good choice, right? That's some of the things we talk about all the time is making good choices for our life and-and really doing what's best for you. And I just, you know, I really think you should think about making a big change here.
text:Mm. Yeah. I-I-I do see that maybe me drinking not as much would possibly better my life to-to a certain degree. And I-- it does make a lot of sense. And I-I guess I can put more effort into sort of lowering the level of drinking that—	labels:I think you really need to quit.
text:Yeah. I mean, alcohol is just so prevalent in our society and it's just around me, wherever I go and parties and stuff that. I-I kind of feel like I should just, uh, get used to it or at least understand its, uh, its effects before I should let it get out of my life entirely. I don't- I don't really see it as something that will completely destroy my life.	labels:I think you're wrong. You know, it really worries me. Anyway, um, I wish you would quit. If all you're going to do is cut down, that's better than nothing. You know, I appreciate you talking to me about this, but I'm gonna keep talking to you about it. It's really important.
text:Yeah. I-I-I just-- I don't see the problem in it right now and maybe it's because I haven't really had that traumatic of an experience but I'm—	labels:Do you wanna wait for that happen? Do you wanna wait for a dramatic experience?
text:You're-you're right. I-I don't want- I don't wanna be too far gone before it's too late. Like I-I can imagine something possibly happening where it's to a degree where I can't escape. And I-I guess I've never really had any-any real experience where the alcohol has really affected me that much or affected anybody close to me that much. So I guess it's something that I feel like I'm control of, but in reality, I might not have as much control as I think.	labels:All right. Well, maybe it's something we can work on together. And, you know, I think we should come up with a plan that's gonna work for you so that you can get control here and stop drinking.
text:Yeah. I-I think that that would be a good step forward into-- and a life of possibly being sober and just experiencing the true- the true aspects of life rather than the-the haziness of alcohol.	labels:Okay, sounds good.
text:Good morning, doctor.	labels:How can I help you today?
text:Well, doctor, I-I made an appointment with you finally, because I was diagnosed over three months ago with a pulmonary disease, COPD.	labels:Yes.
text:And although I didn't call right away. I really need some help in quitting smoking.	labels:Right.
text:So I thought, well, this is my first step. So, uh, it's time to do something.	labels:It's time to do something, okay. So you've been diagnosed by-
text:A respirologist.	labels:A respirologist diagnosed that, and-and how are you feeling right now?
text:I'm- I'm really scared, uh, 'cause I don't feel well.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I haven't felt well for a while. I'm getting coughing fits even when I'm on the telephone with customers.	labels:All right. So it sounds like you've been smoking for such a long time and then this diagnosis was given to you, uh, and now that's really causing you to be afraid and frightened.
text:Mm-hmm. I-I don't know what I'm going to do about it.	labels:Okay, okay. Now, have you thought about when you wanted to quit by?
text:I'm giving myself six months, six months and-and, uh, that seems like a long time away, but I have a feeling I'm going to fail at this point in time. I don't even have 50%, uh, faith in myself.	labels:Okay. So what I'm hearing you say is that, although you want to quit smoking in the next six months, you're feeling a bit, um, under-confident that you'll actually be able to do this and you're-you're worried about failing.
text:I don't know what to do. I've tried to quit smoking. I've had, uh, I've taken pills, I've taken the patch.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I've gone through therapy. Uh, nothing's helped. I finally- I went to the doctor. I was actually in the hospital. They took me to the hospital for a week. That's the longest I quit.	labels:Right. So you've been able to quit smoking, but only when you were in the hospital.
text:I had no choice, I had no choice. And then the next day I was back to smoking again what I smoked.	labels:Okay. Let me just step back a little bit and ask you a question so that I can better understand where the difficulty that you're having with is. Uh, could you tell me what is good about smoking for you?
text:Uh, it's part of my life. It's, uh, I started smoking when I was 13, 14 at home. My parents smoked. All of their friends smoked. It was on television. Everybody looked so grand.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Uh, smoking and all dressed up and-and fancy clothes and maybe having a drink in their hands and having a nice meal, um, I didn't really think about it. It's just an extension of me, I guess. It's-it's good for my nerves.	labels:Right.
text:I mean, I feel like it is. I know when I've got that package in my pocket, or I know if there- if I'm going through some stress, I say, "Oh, well, I'll have a cigarette and think this out."	labels:Sure. So, Jean, I want to make sure that I've understood what you've told me of what you find good about smoking. So it helps you calm down. It gives you something to do. It's been part of your image. You know, you feel sophisticated. You feel like a movie style. In fact, the way you talk about it, it seems like that's what it makes you feel like. Is that right?
text:That's right.	labels:Okay. Is there anything I missed?
text:Um, I enjoy it. It just- it relaxes me. It's great after a meal, um, for me-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-we all just do it as a little group of people, uh, my family.	labels:Right.
text:The people I work with, we go out in the courtyard-	labels:Sure.
text:-have a cigarette and talk. That's how you make friends. A lot of people, um, we're like a little group now, we're all- a little bunch of us.	labels:So it's hard for you to quit smoking when everybody else around you is smoking. And it's so easy to go out and take a break and have a cigarette.
text:I-I never thought of it that way, but probably you're right.	labels:You've told me what is good about smoking for you. Uh, can you tell me what is not so good about smoking for you?
text:Well, it's bad for my health and it's scaring me 'cause I don't feel well.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I haven't felt well for a while. I'm getting coughing fits even when I'm on the telephone with customers.	labels:Is there anything else that's not good about smoking for you?
text:Um, it's expensive, really got expensive, and I smoked 30, 40, sometimes 50 cigarettes a day. And I'm starting to buy different makeup 'cause I'm starting to really age, starting to get lines in my face and wrinkles and my skin is getting really clogged up and I'm spending a fortune on cosmetics.	labels:Okay. So let me make sure I've understood this piece as well. So the not good things or the not so good things about smoking for you are the effects on your health, effects on your physical appearance and how you'll look and-and-and the amount of investment that you're making in makeup and getting your nails done, et cetera. And then the cost of smoking.
text:Yes.	labels:So-so let me ask you this, given everything going on in your life right now on a scale of 1 to 10, where 10 is the most important thing to do, and 1 would be the least important thing to do, how important is it for you to quit smoking?
text:It's for me, for my health, and for the money and everything I've said, I would say it's 10 or- out of 10 that I should quit smoking.	labels:Definitely most important.
text:Yes. A hundred percent, one of the most important things.	labels:Let me ask another question and follow up to that. Again, given everything going on, where 10 is the most confident you've ever felt about anything and 1 is the least confident, how confident are you that you will be able to quit?
text:Um, I, I'd say 35 or 40% competent.	labels:35-40%. Okay.
text:Yeah. I'd like to say more, but, um-	labels:Okay. Now, help me understand why you said 40 and not something like 10 or zero because you mentioned that you don't even want to quit.
text:Well, I'm- I guess I'm still a fighter, and I-I-I- it's starting to- I'm starting to realize it and I do feel pretty good that I came to see you. I-I- it was a step and a couple of people who care about me actually, uh, gave me a pat on the back that I came to see you. So-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-this was a big step. So I guess, yes. Um, it wouldn't have been as high maybe last week.	labels:Okay. So you said 30 to 40%. What would it take to build that confidence to about 45%?
text:Maybe if I could come to see you again, or maybe some ideas were suggested, maybe if there was a group or something. I-I don't know, but I-I need some help.	labels:So if you got help, that would help you say that you went from 40% to 45%.
text:I-I think so because I feel a little better that I just came to see you today.	labels:Okay.
text:Discussing things helps me. I always feel better when I get things out.	labels:Okay. So Jean, I really want to congratulate you on taking this very important first step towards addressing this problem that you've had for such a long time, but as the first small step, I wonder whether you'd be open to actually just monitoring your smoking for the next week. And the reason why I say that- because as you were mentioning to me, smoking is so automatic for you that sometimes writing it down helps make every cigarette a conscious act. And I noticed that you were saying to me, you feel a loss of control over these cigarettes. And sometimes just being mindful and writing something down will help you get some control over what you're doing. And that's often the first small step. What are your thoughts about that?
text:In other words, think about it more, don't- don't just do it automatically.	labels:That's correct. And writing it down helps that process.
text:Yeah, yeah. I think so because, um, when I get the urge, I could maybe fight it and, um, maybe wait till the next urge-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and maybe mark that down that, uh, I didn't go right away when something went wrong. Um, yes, I-I can try that.	labels:Okay. And I can give you a little card that can help you keep track of it. And if you can bring that back to the next appointment, it could be something we could discuss. Okay. Anything else?
text:No, that gives me something to work towards until I see you next week.	labels:Excellent. Well, thank you so much for coming in today.
text:Thank you for seeing me, doctor.	labels:You're welcome.	episode:True
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah.	labels:Hi, I'm Bruce Berger, I work in the clinic. I know you're here to pick up a prescription today.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Um, I noticed, uh, we noticed some of your records that, uh, you've been coming in and getting Sarah's resc-rescue inhaler for her asthma quite frequently, and you haven't got a chronic inhaler for quite some time now. I also know she has been in the emergency room several times this year. Is-- can you tell me what's going on there?
text:Well, I did a research on the chronic inhaler, and I saw that there were steroids in it, and I do not want my daughter taking steroids. I read about all the side effects of steroids and all the potential health problems. I don't want her taking them, and I just want to tell you right up front, I do not want to hear anything about the fact that I do smoke. Um, I smoke outside, I smoke away from her. I do not ever do it around her. So I do not want to hear about that.	labels:Well, I-I need to tell you that the-the medicine that she's taking, the chronic inhaler, which is really essential to controlling her asthma does-- is not a steroid like you're thinking. It's-it's much safer, it's very safe, she-- and she needs to take it to get her asthma under control, and I also want to tell you that, uh, your smoking does affect her asthma, even if- even if it's outside, it gets on her clothes, and to be honest, I'd like to see you quit smoking for you anyway. But, uh, if you want to keep her out of the emergency room, she needs to use that chronic inhaler every day, and you need to watch your smoking.
text:Okay, I-I am not going to allow her to take any kind of steroid. I am not going to allow that to happen. She's my daughter. She's my responsibility, and I'm not going to allow that to happen, and I absolutely make sure that the smoking does not affect her.	labels:Okay, I, you know, I-I don't want to argue with you about this. I-I know that if you-you know, and if you want to keep Sarah out of the emergency room, uh, I-I just wish you'd heed what I'm saying. She needs to use that chronic inhaler every day to get her- to get her asthma under control, and the smoke on your clothes and the smoking flares her asthma up. So she really needs to use that chronic inhaler, and you really need to think about quitting smoking.
text:Fine. I'm in a really big hurry, and I need to get those prescriptions filled as soon as possible, please.	labels:Okay, well, I-I hope you really listen to what I'm telling you about her using that chronic inhaler, and I hope you consider quitting smoking.
text:Fine. I just need to get my prescriptions.	labels:Okay.	episode:True
text:I think the activity piece is the kind of low-hanging fruit that I see. Um, I feel like it's gonna be harder for me to change some of my nutrition habits right out the gate, but if I can get into maybe an activity routine, that that could be good to help maybe some of the other changes happen later.	labels:Yeah. Okay. So physical activity is feeling like the easiest change to look at first.
text:Yeah, I think so.	labels:Great. So tell me a little bit more about your motivators for getting started in being more physically active. I know you shared energy levels and I know you've shared, um, that you'd like to see a boost in your mood and feeling less irritable and stressed. Any other benefits that really make you wanna make this change right now?
text:Yeah, I think just to feeling like physically stronger, um, like physically more able. Uh, last night I like struggled with the jar of salsa, like opening it. So I think that just stuff like that, um, you know, would be in addition to mood and being more productive and energy and all that stuff. Um, yeah, that that would be a definite end goal for me too. And then really to like, I think if I am more active, I think my body image or my body confidence would improve also.	labels:Yeah. So you're wanting to feel stronger so that you can open jars and other things and- and also just have a better sense of confidence.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Great. So on a scale from zero to 10, zero being not at all ready to make a change in the area of physical activity, and 10 being let's- let's do this. I'm excited. I'm ready. Um, where- where do you fall on that scale?
text:Hmm, I'd say I'm about an eight.	labels:Okay. So you're- you're feeling fairly motivated.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Uh, why didn't you pick a six?
text:Well, like I said, I just, I've identified like a lot of things that I think would be good. Um, if I were to be more active and I definitely wanna have that improved mood and energy, um, and feel better about myself. Um, so yeah, all of those things I think are what's really driving that- that rating.	labels:Okay. You're noticing there- there are too many great benefits to being physically active and, um, today you've mentioned energy, mood, strength and body confidence.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Am I missing anything else?
text:I don't think so.	labels:Okay. Those are the big ones for you.
text:Yeah.	labels:Fantastic. Well, um, now we can start looking at if you're interested in how that might look-
text:Mm-hmm, yeah.	labels:- and- and what activities you might end up, um, choosing.
text:Yeah, that'd be great.	labels:Okay.	episode:True
text:Um, how about if we talk about, uh, the problem that I'm really having is, um, getting somebody motivated to do something, um, such as move out of my house.	labels:Okay, so, um, there would be, so what you're, what you're attempting to do is, um, well-- Tell me, I guess, uh, tell me a little bit more about it so I understand it a little bit more.
text:Well, I-I offered my home to somebody and, uh, for, you know, uh, a transitional period.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:You know, and it seems that, um, it's hard for me to be assertive and say I think the, um, the, uh, transitional period is- has come and it's beginning to time to transition. So.	labels:So that's a really kind thing of you to do to take someone into your home like that when they need help like that. And, um, but right now, you're thinking that, uh, time is up you'd like to get this person, you know, you're-you're-you're ready to have him or her move out and have your place back to yourself.
text:Yeah, that's, it's absolutely right that I want, I-I want change but I'm not, I am kind of, like, weak in that area where it's, like, the ability to actually say the words. You're right, yeah. I'd like to be able to do that.	labels:Mm-hmm. And what would, uh, what would help you get to the point of actually, um, booting them out?
text:Um. [sighs] I don't know, I'm-I'm, I guess, I'm kind of, um, I care about the person and, you know, there's a certain amount of comfortability of having somebody with you, you know, and I'm just, so, I guess I am at war with myself because part of me wants the comfort of having a companion and the other part of me is just, you know-- I-I cannot-- I am not really sure what I wanna do, you know.	labels:Mm-hmm. So you kind of feel two ways about it. You-you'd like to, um, you feel like at some level that the time is up for that person to go, and on the other hand, there's a certain amount of security in having him in the house and in knowing he's around.
text:Yeah, you know, it's kind of, like, the old sock- song saying hit the road Jack, don't you come back no more, no more, no more, no more. [laughs] And—	labels:But you're not quite ready if you wanna sing that song.
text:[laughs] Well, first of all I think he would hit the road if I started singing that song 'cause I can sing. [laughs]	labels:I thought you did a pretty nice job singing there right there, it's scary to be quite honest with you and I appreciate, I also appreciate your sense of humor in-in doing that.
text:Well, you know, in life you have to have a sense of humor in my- the way I view and otherwise, you know, I'd be like where's the news. [laughs] I mean, it's either—	labels:That really helps you get through things is to be able to laugh about it.
text:Yeah, yeah, I have to laugh, I mean, even comedians say, you know, uh, most of-- What I've heard about comedians is that they are really not always that happy and they use that in a comical way to, you know, deal with life, so, yeah. [laughs] I kind of, maybe I should go into that. [laughs] Like this girl—	labels:Your new career.
text:Yeah, like this girl Ruth that I know she's-she's, uh, got a serious job and she kind of does that on the side. [laughs]	labels:So, um, what are the uh, uh, what would be the benefits to you right now to having him out of the house?
text:Mm. Let's see. Well, you know, I'm really not sure, I kind of, you know. Um, I'm having a hard time with that. Um.	labels:Tell me a bit more about that.
text:Mm, well, I have to really think about it because-	labels:Some guilt?
text:Yeah, yeah. Maybe some guilt and I, um, uh, I just, you know, [sighs] I go back and forth a little bit, you know.	labels:Uh-huh.
text:Yeah.	labels:Cause you wanna do the right thing because you're- because you're a good person and that's a- that's a really important value to you is that you- is that you help people out.
text:Yeah, I-I- yeah. I mean I- thank you. I-I-I appreciate you saying that I'm a good person. Like I feel I am. Um—	labels:But you've done your duty. Duty is done.
text:Yeah. Oops, it's just hard to- it's just hard to, um, er, yeah. I- my j- my job is done and I have to start to realize that I have to be a little bit more assertive, I think, and a little bit more, um, sure of myself.	labels:And so, what have you done in order to start getting them to Hit The Road, Jack?
text:Well, um, I've had co-conversations about with him and sometimes not-not so pleasant, but I'm-I'm just making, you know, 'cause I happen to sometimes just like hold things in. And then finally I- at-at one point I was really, you know, very logical about it. And then the other day I kind of got not so logical about it.	labels:Okay.
text:[laughs]	labels:So, uh, you were telling me earlier though that you've talked to some other people and he has some options about some other places to go to.
text:Yeah. That's the good thing that he does. And I mentioned them. I-I-I discussed that with him.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And that gives me a relie- a sense of relief. Like I'm not just, you know, saying yeah. You know, go find your own place or, you know, I mean, there are places where he has a safety net to go to and that-that is something that I think I feel better about and that it makes it easier to discuss and giving them options that he can-- Yeah, yeah, exactly.	labels:So, you might have to literally like pack his bags and help them get to those places, um.
text:Been there, done that. [laughs]	labels:Okay. Are you-- This is something you've done before.
text:Yeah.	labels:So whe-when-when are you gonna do it?
text:Well, um, I told him within a couple of days is, you know. I think, um, I-I- cause I have future plans, um, and some things that are up in the air with me as far as where I'm going to be living in. I've had this place for seven years, but I'm not sure, you know. Every day is a new- a new, uh, winding road that we go down, you know?	labels:Mm-hmm, Mm-hmm.
text:Um.	labels:And it's kind of scary.
text:Oh, God, yeah, yeah. But, you know, and it's scary to have an extra, a huge extra trunk that you have to carry with you [chuckles].	labels:And he's that extra trunk.
text:Yeah, yeah.	labels:Okay.
text:But I-I mean and it's not that I don't care about him, I do. But you know, it's just like, we're both- we're all adults here, come on.	labels:Okay. All right. So, it sounds like you-you've actually worked this out until be out within a couple of days.
text:Um, that's the goal, you know.	labels:Okay.
text:And I don't know what his plans are, but those are my plans.	labels:Okay. Well, I have a funny feeling your plans will prevail. [laughter]
text:I like your way of thinking, girl. I-I'll tell him that. [laughs].	labels:Well, thanks for-for talking and playing with our little things here.
text:Um, okay. Just, I don't even know why I'm doing this anymore. I'm-I'm just so stupid. I'm such an idiot. I didn't know what the point of-of this is. I just- I just keep doing the same thing over and over, even though I know it can kill me. I just, I don't have any more willpower, ma'am. Yeah, [foreign language].	labels:Well, Ruth, it sounds like you're very frustrated first of all. And you're saying that you're just tired. You've lost all your willpower.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:You don't want to continue.
text:No, it just seems that cutting myself is the only way out. And I just get suicidal thoughts and [foreign language], I'm just very, very like depressed and what's going on at home.	labels:So you feel really, really like you've had it up to here.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. You're-you're tired. You're stressed. You feel so sad to the point that you're hurting yourself physically so that you can feel something other than what you're feeling right now.
text:Yes. Sometimes a pain in-in the body. It's, uh, to [unintelligible 00:01:27] handle and-and the pain inside of me.	labels:So you were in a lot of pain?
text:Yes. I am.	labels:I'm sorry about that. It must be very, very frustrating to feel all that pain and not be able to do anything about it. And it seems like the only thing that you can do right now is to cry.
text:Yeah, yeah, suicide.	labels:It's okay, Ruth. I understand. Pain inside.
text:[foreign language]	labels:So your mom doesn't understand you and you don't have a dad, that's around?
text:Yeah, 'cause she's a single mom and she struggles a lot. I wanna help her, but I can't help her. So it just makes me sad. I feel like if I don't live anymore, she'll be okay. And she wouldn't have to worry about me or pay my stuff.	labels:So you feel like your hands are tied, you feel like you're a burden to mom. She's a single parent. She works a lot. You have all of these problems in your life. And it sounds to me like you feel like you're just adding more problems to her.
text:Yeah.	labels:And if you're not alive, that's gonna solve the issue for her. She'll do better.
text:I-I think so?	labels:How is she gonna be better off without you?
text:Because it won't be a burden to her.	labels:And how are you a burden now?
text:Because she has to pay for my food and my uniforms, um, to have a roof over our heads.	labels:And how do you help her now?
text:Um, I try to be a good kid. I tried to go to school. I may not have the best grades, but I'm not failing any classes.	labels:Okay. So then even by you coming here today, Ruth, and talking to me and opening up and telling me that you don't feel like you want to continue moving in and telling me and-and confiding in me that, you know, you hurt yourself and all this pain that you feel, that is you trying to help yourself out in one way or another. And that shows that you care. And even more, it shows that you care about your mom and that, in the end, it doesn't sound like you wanna leave her alone because you're still worried about ot-you're still worried about all the burdens on her that you're even thinking of removing yourselves to make her life easier. That shows me that you care about her so, so much, but right now the immediate solution that you have in your mind, it seems like it's-it's-
text:That's the right one.	labels:-How could it be the right one? Ending your life hurting yourself when it's just you and your mom. And you just said, she's a single parent. She doesn't have a husband, you don't have a dad. It's just the two of you. So how could it be the right choice? But I understand your pain and I know where you're coming from. And I know that the release that you feel physically is something that helps you in the moment. Are there other things that we can help you find to start replacing, um, that behavior?
text:Um, I don't know. I don't know. It's just, um, I'm not sure I can.	labels:You're not sure. So you have a lot of on your mind right now. You just opened up to me. You told me that you've been cutting, that you've also been thinking about hurting yourself, killing yourself, not being here. Short-term, the cutting is helping you. You feel like a burden to mom, that stresses you out. That makes you sad. You see how much she struggles, but also on the same hand, we see how much you've been trying and how much you've been trying to help out by trying to go to school. We know your attendance is good. You go most of the time, you know, you're trying to keep up your grades.You have a C average, even having A in math, which we know was the lowest grade you had all semester. So all of those things shows how much effort you've put in and we see that effort. So you've been doing what you can and it's normal to feel like sometimes it's not enough. But that's-that's what we're here for so that you can tell us those things and we can help you.
text:Thank you, ma'am, I feel better.	labels:Oh, thank you, Ruth. Thank you for coming today.
text:Uh, yeah, sure. Um, I guess, well, my doctor referred me to see you. Um, I guess he has some concerns about, um, my- my pregnancy and- and my baby. So, um, yeah, well, I'm doing what I'm told.	labels:So you're following through on meeting with me today and you mentioned he has some concerns. Can you tell me a little bit about that?
text:Uh, yeah, he is concerned about my alcohol intake.	labels:Okay. And I'm wondering if you have any concerns about that.
text:Uh, no.	labels:No. Okay. So that's- that's not been an issue for you. Uh, it is an issue for him and not for you at this point.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Okay. So what about maybe sharing a little bit about your alcohol intake and maybe a little bit about what your- what your life's like a little bit for me today?
text:Um, okay. Uh, well, I guess I drink like a glass of wine at supper every night, and just to, you know, relax a little with my friends if I go out. So wine has always been a kind of a family tradition with supper. So-	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:So it was kind of been a part of your culture a little bit, and you know, just find alcohol, maybe takes the edge off a little bit and-
text:Yeah, and I, you know, I-I have friends who have drank during pregnancy, and-and I see articles on Facebook and-and, you know, things that show that there isn't really a clear link between, you know, abnormalities or, uh, yeah, I just- I just think it's kind of an old wives' tale. So, you know, I'm independent and I'm gonna- I'm gonna do what I want, it's my body.	labels:Okay. So you don't feel very comfortable with somebody telling you what you should be consuming, what kind of alcohol, and how much alcohol you should be consuming. And, um, it sounds like you've been getting some mixed messages, your doctor's saying there's no safe amount of alcohol you can drink, and asked you to come and see me. And then also, you've been checking- sounds like you've been checking things out a little bit.
text:Yeah. You know, I've looked it up to see, you know, kinda what I can say back, you know, to support my argument.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah, which is that, um, I'm going to do what I- do what I wanna do and what I know, right? So it's- yeah. I don't know, but, um, I'm here anyway. So-	labels:So you know yourself best and you wanna be sort of the boss of your body and you don't want somebody else telling you what- what's okay and what's not okay. And it seems like you're not maybe too concerned right now about your substance use.
text:Nope. I never have been.	labels:Okay. And I'm wondering if that concern is coming from, "It's been okay. I've got these messages from friends."
text:Yep.	labels:"Um, media has said it's okay to drink during alcohol. And so that concern, um, just sort of, I don't have it and, and maybe the doctor might be wrong."
text:Mm-hmm. I think so.	labels:You're not sure if he's sort of playing things up a little bit there?
text:Yeah. I mean, you know-	labels:It might be a bit extreme to-
text:Yeah.	labels:-to quit drinking. Um, I'm just wondering, have you, um, would you be open maybe to just kind of taking a look at what Canada's guidelines say about drinking? Um, is that something you'd be open to?
text:Like right now?	labels:Yeah.
text:Uh-	labels:What if- uh, can I show you a brochure about that?
text:Uh, yeah, I guess.	labels:Yeah?
text:Sure.	labels:Well, if we take a look at the low-risk-alcohol drinking guidelines, what it says is for women, um, the safe limits are 10 drinks a week for women and 2 drinks a day. And that's if a woman isn't pregnant. And when it says in the guidelines, as far as drinking, uh, throughout pregnancy, there is no safe amount to drink during pregnancy. So really zero alcohol is, um, the woman should not be drinking any at all. And I'm just wondering what-what are your thoughts on that?
text:Well, you know, I've-I've heard these kinds of things before, but I just- I don't see the evidence. I don't see the risk, you know, I don't, you know, if someone can like prove to me, or show a direct link or something like that.	labels:So when you see it here in kind of black and white, you're not sure if this is, uh, you know, enough-
text:It's the same thing.	labels:-to con- sort of convince you that-that it might be dangerous to be drinking through alcohol?
text:Yeah. It's just a fancy little brochure saying what I've already known, I've already heard.	labels:So you feel like, um, what the doctor's saying and this brochure just kind of feels like, yeah, it's just kind of blowing things up out of proportion a little bit.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:And it sounds like you-you've got some solid information already that alcohol, you know, has been safe to-to have during pregnancy. Tell me about that information that you've-you've explored.
text:Um, well, I've looked up, um, different articles. Um, and I- as I said, I personally know people who haven't had any problems. Um, so that's about the extent.	labels:Mm-hmm. You mentioned you looked up some articles and it sounds like evidence is really important to you. So, um, those articles, is that something recent? Um, you can tell me about that.
text:Like, uh, I don't like- have like a bibliography or anything.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So I can't really- I don't really know when those were published. It's just stuff I've found, supporting the way that I look at it.	labels:So you felt like, um, the information that you found supports the values that you have of being able to be independent and autonomous, to be able to make your own choice and the information that your doctor shared or spoke to you about, and then this brochure kind of feels like that's challenging sort of your values.
text:Yeah. Well, it's like all this brochure is saying is that, um, the same again, the same thing that I've heard, that the limits and that there is no safe amount of drink during pregnancy, but it's like, why not?	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:You know, it's kind of like the "why" that it's like-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-I never get that information.	labels:Wha-what's the big deal if you're drinking and—
text:Yeah, like what kind of issues would that cause if any?	labels:Maybe we can kind of put that on the shelf for a moment, and we'll come back to it and sort of look at, you know, what is- what does the guidelines have to say about why. And, um, and-and I'm wondering if we can kind of just have a look for a moment at, um, your pregnancy, and is this something that you were- you were hoping to have a baby?
text:Yeah.	labels:That was something that you'd been planning?
text:Yep.	labels:Okay. And I'm wondering as far as, um, bringing the baby into the world and, you know, your future as a parent, ho-how important is it to have a healthy baby to you?
text:Um, well, it's-it's really important to me. That's a big priority of mine is to have a healthy baby and bring him or her up well and-and, you know, be a good parent.	labels:Mm. What does being a good parent look like? Tell me more about that.
text:Um, not-not like being there at home with them, not being absent, um, taking care of them, feeding them, um, changing their diaper, which I'm not excited about. Um, you know, kind of the- those basics.	labels:Hmm. Kind of like protecting your baby and-
text:Yeah.	labels:-guiding your baby and-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-you know, nurturing that baby is really important to you-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and raising your baby well?
text:Yeah, of course.	labels:That's something that- that really matters to you and, um, I'm-I'm hearing you say that, you know, protecting your baby is important to you and at the same time, um, kind of clashes with some of the information that's in the brochure.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:What do you make about that- what do you think about that?
text:Um, well, I just don't know- I just don't know where-where these brochures get their information or-or anything from, like, where's the hard evidence essentially.	labels:You wanna see it in black and white.
text:Yeah.	labels:You wanna know that it's the latest and the greatest kind of thing. Um, this is information that, uh, that I have been sharing with you earlier, this is the latest information evidence-based, um, on the latest research since 2011 and, um, a lot of research has gone into what is-what is okay for a mom to consume, like, alcohol. There's the-the evidence that we have, um, but in the end, you choose what's best for you and what's best for your baby. What are your- what are your thoughts on that?
text:Um, well, it surprises me that that's based on research from out of 2011, um, and I must have missed that. I guess, you know, if it is, um, you know, I do wanna do what's best for my baby and for myself. And if I have to quit drinking, um, I guess ultimately I have to-I make that decision, um, but, um, that's a lot of, uh, information to take in today.	labels:Mm-hmm, kind of feels like, you know, you were making some really good decisions about your baby. You've done research and you wanna be able to bring your baby up well and take care of your baby. And I-I can see that that's really important to you. I hear you saying that and it kind of feels like this information isn't kind of what you were expecting to hear.
text:Nope.	labels:What would you feel like would be helpful as far as next steps, like when you think about maybe moving away from drinking alcohol throughout the rest of your pregnancy?
text:Um, well, first things first, if I could take a brochure home maybe, um, you know, show it to my partner and-and-and get-get their support, um, I think that's really gonna help me, and kind of changing our-our habits, or, you know, putting the alcohol away, out of sight. Um, I think that's probably the best thing I can do, like, today when I get home.	labels:Mm-hmm, that's some really significant steps you're talking about. You're talking about putting the alcohol away, that's huge. That's-that's really big steps.
text:Yeah.	labels:I really want to thank you for, you know, exploring this with me today, and I'm wondering if we can kind of continue this conversation again, and talk about those steps, and how it goes with talking to your partner about giving up drinking and, um, the- giving you a chance to do some more research and, you know, maybe looking through these brochures and kind of just coming back and sharing a little bit more about, you know, what you thought about the information and what feels right for you. Is that something you'd be open to?
text:Yeah, I think that- I think that would be a good idea, and maybe you could help me, yeah, with, like, ways to approach it because I think that my partner kind of has the same view that I- that I had. So-	labels:We definitely can cover that again on our next meeting. Thank you for coming to see me.
text:Good.	labels:Blood pressure's a little on the high side.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. I wonder if I could raise the subject of your weight.
text:What?	labels:I wondered if we could spend just a couple of minutes talking about your weight.
text:You are joking, aren't you? I mean, look, I've made time in my day to come here.	labels:Yeah.
text:I'm kept in your waiting room-	labels:Yeah.
text:-for 45 minutes.	labels:Yeah.
text:It's not acceptable.	labels:Yeah.
text:You know?	labels:Yeah.
text:If I make an appointment with a client for 10:00-	labels:Yeah.
text:-I expect them to start at 10:00, not 10:45.	labels:Right, and you-- so you're busy enough, and—
text:Yeah, I've got other things to do. I've got accounts to do.	labels:Yeah.
text:I've got clients they're coming in.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:You know?	labels:And it wasn't essentially easy for you to make the time to come down, and you had to wait in the waiting room, and now I raised the subject of weight just when you're thinking of going.
text:Yeah, I mean, okay, fair enough, um, I've got to have my blood pressure-	labels:Yeah, yeah, yeah.
text:-medication changed, but I really haven't got time to talk about my weight. I mean, you know, I'm aware of my weight.	labels:Right.
text:I'm aware of the problems, and I'm also aware of the solutions.	labels:Right.
text:Um, so I don't really need a discussion, it's- it's just I've got too much to do at the moment, you know?	labels:Right. And so it-it-it's been a bit of a rush for you coming in.
text:Yeah.	labels:And, I- I'm sorry about the wait in the waiting room.
text:Well, it's b- it's bad form, you know?	labels:Yeah, yeah, that's, um, and that- that's not easy for you, because you- you'd like to go really soon, and here I am asking you to spend just a couple of minutes with me.
text:Yeah, but basically I've got things to do.	labels:Yeah.
text:I gotta get back to the office.	labels:Yeah.
text:I've got a pile of work-	labels:Yeah.
text:-that I've gotta deal with.	labels:Yeah.
text:And every time- every moment out of my day-	labels:Yeah.
text:-means that I have to work in the evening-	labels:Yeah.
text:-or the weekends.	labels:Yeah. It counts.
text:Well, when you're self-employed, you haven't got a choice, you know?	labels:Yeah, exactly. Exactly. It's up to you, just a couple of minutes.
text:Well, I'm here now, so yeah, okay, if it's a couple of minutes, yeah?	labels:I promise.
text:Okay, because I really must get on.	labels:I want- I wanted to simply ask you how you feel about it?
text:About what-what, losing weight? Well, obviously, I-I want to.	labels:Yep.
text:Um, yeah, I mean, who doesn't? I mean, I'm aware that I'm over my, uh, uh, b-b-b-balance weight, but I now know that it's causing problems. I mean, obviously, I get out of breath if I have to do something a bit howering, and I realize that I'm on this blood pressure-	labels:Right.
text:-um, and-and maybe that's probably contributing to it.	labels:Right. So you can see the links between your weight and your health, and you'd like things to be a bit better.
text:Yeah, I mean, there are rather other things, but I mean, yeah, the weight is a- is a- is a- something I would like to get hold off. You get on [inaudible 00:03:17]	labels:You'd like to, if you could?
text:Yeah, I mean, I know, um, th- the theories of bit of exercise on a regular basis, um, a balanced diet. Um, but unfortunately, because of my lifestyle, because of being self-employed as an accountant, it's finding the time, uh, to exercise, but also, finding the time to sort of think, "Okay, I'm gonna go shopping for this, that, and the other"-	labels:Yeah.
text:-"I'm gonna prepare a meal."	labels:Yeah.
text:With me, it's very often—	labels:Ready meals, and that sort of thing.
text:Yeah, yeah. Food on the run, you know?	labels:Okay, yeah.
text:Grazing.	labels:Let me see if I can summarize what you've said, um, and then we'll see what next. Um, you lead a busy life.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, you run a business, and you've got a lot to do.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Um, you're- you're- you're aware of the- of the links between your health and your weight, and you are concerned, to some extent, about that, and ideally it sounds like you'd like to do something about it, it's just that your life is busy and rushed, and you tend to use convenience foods in order to get the work done.
text:Yeah, I mean, I, to a certain extent, because of my lifestyle, food is just fuel.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:You know? Um, because I'm juggling all these balls, and I don't want to drop any.	labels:I get it. I get it. And so, if you could fit it in, you would like things to be different, but that's not so easy.
text:No.	labels:Okay. Can I suggest that you come back and see me in a couple of weeks time just to chat about this?
text:Um, okay, I'm up for that, but it's gonna be the same problem of, A, finding time-	labels:Right.
text:-and B, if I can make an appointment-	labels:Right, right.
text:-I don't expect to be kept waiting for half an hour-	labels:Exactly.
text:-or whatever, 'cause it's—	labels:Exactly. I'll tell you what might be a nice solution, is if you come down first appointment, and I give you an appointment at 8:30-
text:That'd be good.	labels:- and then there'll be absolutely no waiting. And, the purpose of that- of that visit will be to have a look at how you really feel about how you could move forward, and somehow fit in a more healthier lifestyle into the busy work life that you've got.
text:I'll maybe have a look at my schedule, see whether anything-	labels:Yeah.
text:-can be arranged, or I can pass something on-	labels:Yeah.
text:-to something on to some-- and-and so it's not a wasted interview. So I can come here and say, okay, I've looked at my schedules, I've looked at things-	labels:Good.
text:-whatever.	labels:Good. And see if you can fix it up, and also give some thought to what we've talked about.
text:Yeah, of course.	labels:Good stuff. Okay.
text:Hi, Kathy, nice to meet you.	labels:I'm sure there's so many other places you'd rather be than here today talking with me, but, um, you're here, and, um, thank you.
text:Okay.	labels:Um, I wanted to ask you first how you're doing physically. Um, I wanna make sure you're okay, if you feel okay. And, um, 'cause your-your safety is of, uh, most importance. So, if I could just ask you a couple of questions-
text:Sure.	labels:-surrounding that, will that be okay?
text:Absolutely. Yeah.	labels:-um, we-we're-- You're here probably because of your speeding ticket. That's what I gathered.
text:Yeah. I got a DUI, and I was speeding, uh, during the DUI, obviously.	labels:Oh. Oh, okay. So, Um, around that, um, do you ever feel-- You feel bad or-or sick when you're-- Right now, is there something--
text:No, I'm fine. Yeah	labels:Do you feel okay. Okay, good. I just wanted to make sure, um, uh, and, um, if the last time you-you drank was--
text:The night of the-the DUI is the last time I drank.	labels:Uh-huh, yeah.
text:And then, you know, um, I guess I'm here 'cause my lawyer wants me to go through an assessment-	labels:Sure.
text:-uh, with you, and, um, I'm really not sure what it means or anything like that, but, uh, he said I'm supposed to come here and, uh, just tell the truth, is what he told me.	labels:Oh, okay. Well, I appreciate that.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, and also, if there's any-any-any information that you need from me, please, um, feel free to ask. Um, that the reason that he asked you to come in was because of the blood alcohol level was 2.8.
text:Okay.	labels:So, um, that was legally beyond the limit that you should be driving.
text:Is it bad, or is it high or?	labels:Well, it's-it's high, uh, you know, they--
text:Okay.	labels:For driving.
text:Okay	labels:And so, um, the officer at the- at the scene, um, when you blew the 2.8, he-he did-- he-- There was a- there was a problem.
text:Yeah. He was, well, freaking out. He was--	labels:Was he freaking out? Yeah-yeah.
text:I think he was getting a little over the top a little bit, but, you know, again, whatever.	labels:Right-right. So, um, I'll just ask you a couple of questions, um, if you don't mind about-about your drinking. And-and your-- So, um, you said the couple was two weeks ago was the last time you drank?
text:Yes.	labels:Yeah. Okay. And, um, that night, what was it that you-you drank and, how much?
text:Uh, my friend was having a, um- a get together as it was birthday party in, uh, downtown, and, uh, you know, it's not like it's a normal thing, but, uh, I did drink too much that night. You know, I just, uh-- And I used poor judgment. I shouldn't have driven that night.	labels:Right. Yeah. Um, I was-- Maybe, you could tell me about how much you drank.
text:Um, I don't really remember. I know, uh, I dunno, I probably had five or six drinks, I would think, something like that.	labels:Mm-hmm. Five, six drinks, like?
text:Um, yeah, they were a little bigger than that. I don't really-- I wasn't really counting, so, I don't really know.	labels:Oh, okay. So, I guests maybe five or six.
text:Five or six, something like that. Yeah.	labels:Um, yeah. And-and, w-what were the drinks, were?
text:Um, absolute vodka-	labels:Hmm.
text:-and seven off. Yeah.	labels:Oh, okay. So, um, you said that it was pretty much just five or six. Do you-- How often do you use that? And you said it's not a-
text:Yeah.	labels:-not a normal occasion for you to drink that much?
text:Normally I drink one or two, and that's kind of it, you know, this one I did, uh- you know, I did feel a little drunk when I was- you know, when I was drinking, I just, uh, used poor judgment. I really shouldn't have drove.	labels:Right. Yeah. Um, so, you usually don't drink that much. Um, on an average, maybe a week, how much would you say you drink? Just--
text:Um, sometimes I drink, um, you know, maybe one or two, and then I- and then I won't drink for a while, you know. So, it's not really a-- There's not really a pattern-	labels:Uh-huh
text:-you know, it's not really like a uh- it's not a habit, you know,	labels:Right.
text:I-I don't know if I would consider myself alcoholic. You know, I just, uh, um, you know, again, it was poor judgment.	labels:Right. So, it doesn't get in the way of your-
text:Oh, no.	labels:-every day.
text:Absolutely not. Mm-mm.	labels:Right. Oh, that's good.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, um, looking back, Mike, uh, when was it that you started thinking that when you did use alcohol, um, most in your life?
text:Um, there was really not a time that I, uh-- I don't know. I-I don't understand the question really. I mean, it-- There really wasn't-- I don't really drink on a normal basis, so, I don't know-- [crosstalk]	labels:So, that is- that is a complete, uh-- A question that is even applicable?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:That's fine.
text:Yeah.	labels:That's fine. Okay. Um, so, what about the, uh- the first DUI, could you tell me a little bit about that? This was your second one?
text:Yeah.	labels:And so, that's sort of why I was asking about it earlier in your life if that was a--
text:It seems like every time that I, uh, do drink more than a couple of drinks, I tend to get in trouble. And, the two times that I did, I got in trouble both times. [crosstalk]	labels:It was those two times. Yeah.
text:Yeah, pretty much. I mean, it's-- It sounds strange, I know, but, uh--	labels:It sounds like bad luck.
text:Yeah. Actually, that-that's followed me around pretty much my whole life, the bad luck thing.	labels:Yeah.
text:But the-the-the-the-the alcohol hasn't really at all.	labels:Oh, okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:But just that bad luck?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. Is there alcohol with the- with-- Goes hand in hand with the bad luck or just--
text:Sure seems like it. Yeah. It sure seems like that.	labels:Yeah. Oh, okay. So-so, what about that? The-- Is there other incidences that you could think of that seems, uh, um, alcohol was there, and then your luck just sorta took a-a turn, or it was just those two times?
text:Um, you know, I don't really, um-- I-I don't really, uh, get into a situation where I-I-I drink too much. Um, you know, again, I-I realize it's my second DUI, but,, um, uh-uh, it isn't something that, um, is like a normal everyday process for me.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Um, you know, normally when I drink, I drink one or two drinks and then I stop. Um, so, it's not like it's, um-- You know, it's not like it's something that has become a problem in my life, you know.	labels:Oh, good. Oh, good. And-and so, where do you usually, um, have your drinks? Is it at home or, uh, out-out for, uh- after work, social drinking?
text:Um, it's normally social.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah. It's normally social. It would be, you know, maybe in events or something like that is normally when I would, um, maybe drink more than one or two.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I guess I should probably just call a taxi cab or something, you know. That way, I wouldn't have this problem.	labels:Would that help?
text:Um, probably, I think that would help. I think that would be something that I should, uh- I should work on.	labels:So, it sounds like you've already been thinking about, uh, ways to-to get around safely.
text:Yeah. Yeah, or I can just stay home probably too. If I was gonna drink, I could probably stay home, then I wouldn't get in trouble either.	labels:You have been giving this a lot of thought.
text:Yeah, a little bit.	labels:Yeah, good.
text:Yeah, obviously, because I just don't-- You know, I don't like getting in trouble, and I don't, uh--	labels:Trouble's not fun.
text:Yeah.	labels:No.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. So, tell-tell me a little bit more about, um, when you fi-- If you'd find yourself, and then that-that thought comes about maybe doing something other than getting in the- in the car, does that come and go, or-or is it something that you think you-- Next time you might do?
text:Um, oh, I'll never get in the car when I'm drinking again. That-- Yeah. I-I would never do that again.	labels:This, it-- What-what-what was different?
text:Uh, I don't want to lose my license, you know.	labels:Hmm.
text:I don't, uh, you know, I don't wanna lose my license.	labels:Wow. You-you need your license-
text:Yeah.	labels:-to get around. You need your license for work.
text:Well, and then I-I sell cars for a living too, so--	labels:Oh.
text:-um, you know, that would be, um-- You know, I don't wanna lose my job either. You know, I think those would kind of be connected together.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And, you know, I-- You're not gonna call my work or anything for this, are you?	labels:No.
text:Oh, okay.	labels:No, no. That's--
text:All right.	labels:That would be entirely up to you, um, to-to have that.
text:Okay. I just didn't know how that worked.	labels:Oh, no.
text:Because I think if they found out, I might, you know, be in jeopardy with my job. So--	labels:Well, you're here. And-and-and I have you give, uh-uh, credit for that. It took a lot to come in today and, um, when, um- when somebody is actually talking safety for themselves, which I-I hear you saying, um, calling a taxi or-or staying home.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, what does staying home look like for you? Is that something that-- You know, you-you talked about drinking at an event. Would staying home be--
text:Well, you know, the Super Bowl is coming up, and that might be an opportunity where, you know, I might-- I could see myself maybe drinking that day, you know.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So, maybe I would just, uh-- I think I'll just have people come over to my house instead of going somewhere else, you know.	labels:That would work for you?
text:Yeah, I think so, and probably a smarter thing to do. I don't wanna go through this again, you know.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:Uh, so, uh, would people come and drink at your house, and then they would be fine with that?
text:I think so.	labels:Yeah.
text:Sure.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, an event at your house.
text:There you go.	labels:Yeah, good. That sounds good. Mike, has there even been, if any, um, a time in your life when you've thought about, um, not drinking at all?
text:For my first DUI, I did, uh-- I didn't drink at all for about six months. And, um, I-I-I just didn't think that, um, I really had a problem with it, so, you know, I-I did start drinking again. But, you know, again, it wasn't uh-- You know, it was a little different last time, because I was drinking a little more last time than, you know, now. I don't really drink as-as much as I used to drink, you know, um, and, you know, after you know, I quit for six months, so I kind of knew that I didn't really have a problem.	labels:Right. Six months. That's a long time.
text:Yeah.	labels:What were those six months like for you?
text:Um, I know it was kind of strange. My friends didn't really hang out with me too much. Um--	labels:Friends?
text:Yeah. You know, I, uh.	labels:Whi-which? If you don't mind me asking, which friends were those? I don't mean to get too personal, but, the friends that normally drank with you or just your-
text:No, my friends.	labels:-social circles. Okay.
text:Just my social circle, I guess, uh--	labels:Wha-wha-what do you think made-made them n-not hang out with you?
text:Probably 'cause I didn't- I wasn't drinking with them, I guess. I don't really know. I mean, it seemed, uh--	labels:Did you ask them?
text:Um, no. I really couldn't because my girlfriend really wouldn't let me hang with them. You know? I mean, it was, uh-- She said that if I, you know, kept hanging out with them guys, that she wasn't gonna be with me anymore. And I just thought that it was better for me to, you know, calm down for a little bit and, uh, maybe things would get better with us, you know.	labels:And your girlfriend's important to you-
text:Sure.	labels:-and that relationship was important to you.
text:Well, it was until she left, you know.	labels:At the time it was important, yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:Is it-- Why'd she leave?
text:Uh, she left when I started drinking again.	labels:Oh, after the six months.
text:After the six months, she, uh-- You know, it's kinda, I dunno, she just said that it wasn't gonna work out, and, uh, she decided not to continue with the relationship.	labels:Oh, okay. So-so, um, you started drinking again, and then she left?
text:Uh, it was about the same time. I really don't know which came first. It was about the same time. Uh, we were getting in a lot of arguments. I just didn't quite feel myself. You know, I-I-I wasn't-- My friends weren't around. I, uh-- You know, I missed going out with them.	labels:You felt isolated?
text:Yeah. It was kind of weird 'cause I felt like she was trying to control me, and, uh- and uh, you know, I, uh-- And she was telling me what to do all the time, and I just, uh, didn't feel right about the whole situation. So, it was pretty much, we both decided, you know, that it just wasn't the right thing to do, so.	labels:And, so you're-you're an independent guy-
text:Sure.	labels:-and, no one's going to tell you what to do.
text:Well, I guess. Sure. Yeah.	labels:Yeah. So, have, uh-- So then, you started drinking again, and that was-- If you could just kind of give me a little timeframe of how long ago that was, that-that six months of complete--
text:[clear throat] Well, let's see. The first one was, uh, three years ago, and then, um, this one was a few weeks ago, so, um, it's been a few years, you know.	labels:Absolutely. Yeah.
text:Yeah. It's been a few years	labels:So, in-in what ways has, uh, drinking, um, sort of, uh-- What is kind of the good things about drinking since those couple of- those couple of years, and then-then maybe not so good things?
text:I don't really know that I can really compare good or bad. I just, uh-- You know, I just drink to be social, you know, I don't know that it really changes anything about me. It just, uh-- You know, I just drink to be social, you know.	labels:Mm-hmm. And those friends that were not hanging around with you, did they come back?
text:Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. As soon as my girlfriend left, I could go out with them again, you know. [laughter]	labels:Did they not get along with your girlfriend?
text:Well, she didn't want me going out with them.	labels:Yeah.
text:She thought that they really--	labels:She was separate then from your other friends and-
text:Yeah.	labels:-those relationships just didn't come together?
text:She blamed the first DUI on them. She said, you know, because I was out with them, that it was pretty much, you know, they-they made me drink too much that night.	labels:And what do you think?
text:I think she was right on that. Yeah, absolutely.	labels:So, you-you--
text:I mean, if they wouldn't have gave me those shots, you know, towards the end of the night, I would've been all right. You know, I could have drove, and I wouldn't have, uh- I wouldn't have hit that mailbox.	labels:You would have been fine if they didn't- if they didn't give you those-those shots. Yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:Oh, so, the-the-the mailbox, where did that come in? That was the-
text:That was--	labels:-first DUI that got you.
text:Yeah. I was on-- It was like I was a couple of blocks away from the house and I, uh, rolled up on the neighbor's lawn and I took out their mailbox.	labels:That must have been scary.
text:I don't really remember too much of that night.	labels:Oh, that was blackout type?
text:Uh, I don't know if I was blacked out, but I just don't remember a lot of it.	labels:Right. Yeah.
text:I wouldn't really call it a blackout. I just don't really-	labels:Oh, okay.
text:-remember how that happened.	labels:I'm-I'm sorry. I didn't mean to assume that-
text:Yeah.	labels:-it was blackout that-- Forgive me for that.
text:Yeah. Yeah. It's all right.	labels:Um, so, that it was sort of after that that the girlfriend-- Your girlfriend, I don't know, well, her name. Um, your girlfriend decided-- The mailbox and she's--
text:Yeah, Mary-Mary, just [crosstalk] Well, after-after I got the-the-- After I hit the mailbox-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-um, I stopped drinking for, you know, like about six months, and, uh, you know, and we were trying to work things out, but it just didn't-	labels:Yeah.
text:-it just didn't work.	labels:Oh.
text:I think she became a little too possessive at that point.	labels:Yeah. You felt like she was the only person that, um, you had in your life, you needed your friends and--
text:Um, I think she just wanted to control me and I was tired of being controlled.	labels:No one likes to be controlled, uh, yeah. Yeah. Uh, and, in what ways, well, did you feel that, um, uh, at any time, did you feel controlled by your friends. You said they-they made you drink those shots. That-that sounded like maybe you felt a little controlled? But-- [crosstalk]
text:No, I was-- They just-- No, they weren't- they weren't really controlling me. They just-- They shouldn't have given me the last couple shots, 'cause you, they-they knew I was pretty, you know, uh, messed up before that. So-	labels:Yeah.
text:-you know, that when they- when they-- You know, when they gave me the last, you know, couple shots, that kind of put me over the edge.	labels:Right, they weren't looking out for your best interest at that point.
text:Pretty much, pretty much.	labels:And then sent you out in your car.
text:Yeah. I mean I guess it was my decision to take the, uh- you know, the other shots, but I-I just-- I don't know. I really don't really remember too much.	labels:It's a hindsight again.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah. You can blame hindsight a little bit. I mean, that works for me. [laughter]	labels:Hindsight? Oh, yeah, they'll-- it'll take the- it'll take the blame. Um, so, you still-- Do you still, uh, you know, you started drinking again, and then, um, the second DUI, what-- Is it the same circle of social-social circle, same friends?
text:Yeah. [crosstalk]	labels:Same type of situation. [crosstalk]
text:I mean, they've been my friends since, you know, uh, since high school.	labels:So, they're important to you?
text:Yeah, absolutely.	labels:Mm-hmm. Yeah. And-and sometimes, um, people have friends who are friends, but then there's friends who would stay on in our lives and are constant. So, these would be your constant core--
text:Sure, absolutely.	labels:Yeah, okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:Have you ever had, um, uh, interest outside, um, the social drinking, the friends, um, like, what do you do when you're not with them?
text:Uh, well, like I'll do stuff around the house, you know, uh, cut the grass and stop, do yard work, other than that, um, I don't know.	labels:Yeah. And any other relationship, if you don't mind me asking-- [crosstalk]
text:Uh, no, I'm single now, so, you know, I don't really, uh-- [crosstalk]	labels:How's that going?
text:It's all right, you know, I date a little bit but, uh, you know, I just don't wanna get serious right now.	labels:Oh what-- So, what does serious look like? Um--
text:Um, I just don't want to date someone in a regular basis. I don't really feel like I want to be in a committed relationship.	labels:Yeah. That's all right, yeah. That's good. It sounds like you know yourself pretty well.
text:Sure, absolutely.	labels:Okay. Right. So, um, now that we-we are looking at, um, your second DUI and, um-- Well, so now, Mike, if you don't mind me asking, what would you do differently, um-um, from here on now?
text:Well, I think I would like really think about--	labels:Since the co- the court sent you and we have to sort of explore what would happen if you went out and did this again.
text:Yeah. Well, I mean I-I, uh- I, uh- I wouldn't drink as much, and if I- if I did, I would call, uh, a taxi or, um, you know, get some kind of a ride home, I think, 'cause, uh, you know, I just, uh-- I-I just don't wanna get in trouble, you know.	labels:Yeah. Is there somebody that you could call?
text:Uh, I don't really think about that. I guess I would have to think about that, because if I was gonna go out and drink, I would have to think about that. Yeah.	labels:Right.
text:I guess I could call it taxi cab or something, I don't know.	labels:They'll come.
text:Yeah. I think that will be something.	labels:Yeah. They'll come. As long as you got the money, they'll come and get you. Yeah.
text:Yeah. I think maybe if I take some money, I'll put it like in my wallet-	labels:Yeah.
text:-and I'll like put it in there for emergency, and that way, I'll have money. In case I get drunk, I can just call a cab, and I'll use that money to get home.	labels:Oh, so, when you use your-your bar money, it would be somewhere else?
text:What's that?	labels:Your bar money would be somewhere else, not in your wallet?
text:Probably in my front pocket, I guess.	labels:There you go. Okay, yeah. So, that, y-yeah.
text:Yeah.	labels:That makes- that makes a lot of sense. So then you'd have your money tucked away someplace different.
text:Yeah. Well, if I put, uh- if I put it away, then I wouldn't spend it though, you know, [unintelligible 00:18:48] have it.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:There-there would be a plan that I would have to-	labels:Sounds like a good plan.
text:-to get home. Yeah.	labels:Yeah. So, uh, how often do you think you'll be needing that plan in the--
text:It'd probably be my wallet for a while, I would think, 'cause I-- Like I said, I don't really think I have a problem with, uh- with the drinking, you know. I just-	labels:Right.
text:-think that, you know, it was an isolated incident.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And-and I, uh-- You know, I just, uh--	labels:And then-- Yeah, and then also you said if you're going to have people, uh, you're gonna be drinking for the Super Bowl. Was is it Super Bowl?
text:Yeah.	labels:I'm sorry, I'm not a football fan but it's Super Bowl coming up, right?
text:Yeah, well, you gotta have some people over at the Super Bowl, you know.	labels:So, you'd have them in and, um, I'm just curious about the folks who are leaving your house, would they-- Would-would you be concerned about them, there'll be a taxi. Sometimes designated drivers I--
text:I don't really hang out with people that really drink a lot though. I mean, they're-they're not like-- I wouldn't call them drunks, so, I mean, they can, you know, they can handle their-- [crosstalk]	labels:So, it would be up to them?
text:Sure, I would think, yeah.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Yeah.	labels:It sounds like you have-- You've thought about this, and you're-you're willing to put some things in place, the-the wallet, um, money in the wallet and-and for the taxi-
text:Yeah.	labels:Have folks in to-to socialize for an event, and that you still have your-your social-- Your friends and your core group and-and, uh, just be careful. What was the six months of not drinking like for you? If you were to choose to not drink.
text:You know, it was a- it was, uh- it was pretty good. I just didn't feel like I had my friends around, and-and it just-- It seemed kinda boring. I mean, I felt good physically and, uh, you know, I, uh- I was more on time to work, I was doing really good at work and so forth, um, but, you know, it just, um-- The hard part for me was I just, uh- I just didn't have any friends around. I just kinda-- I felt isolated. I just didn't- I just didn't feel comfortable, you know.	labels:Six months is a- is a long time. There was, um-- Try to think back, were there- were there other people? Was it- was it just you?
text:Well, my-my girl- my girlfriend and I were trying to work it out. But it just seemed like we were arguing all the time, you know. It just didn't seem like-- You know what I mean? Like the not-drinking part was good, but it just didn't seem like anything else had changed.	labels:All right.
text:You know.	labels:So-so, if you were not to-- If you were to go with the plan of maybe not drinking, which you mentioned-
text:Yeah.	labels:-um, uh, your girlfriend Mary is-is not a part of your life-
text:No-	labels:-right now.
text:-and I really don't see that working out really well.	labels:Would there be something else that would, um, sort of, uh, fill in that-- The-the friends area, do you think?
text:Well, I don't know. I mean, it's a-- I mean, my friends drink though. So, it's kinda hard to- it's kinda hard to, you know, to be with them, and then-- When I'm not drinking, 'cause it's-- I just don't feel like I fit in, you know.	labels:But, yeah, I-I see what-what you're saying, for sure. Um, there-there's those friends that they drink but they don't drink that much, I heard you saying.
text:Yeah, they don't drink that much, but they-they seem to-- You know, like they do drink though, you know.	labels:Mm. Sure.
text:I mean, it's just beer. You know-	labels:Right.
text:-it's not like they're drinking whiskey or anything like that. It's--	labels:Yeah. So--
text:You know, but, they'll drink beer, and it's just-- You know, for me, I don't know. Sometimes, uh, I don't-- You know, I have an intention to have a couple of drinks and maybe I'll have, you know, more than a couple, you know-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and then I don't know what really makes a-a legal limit. So, I think I can drink what? Like two or three drinks an hour, is that what it is?	labels:Um, it's one drink per hour.
text:One drink per hour, okay.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I'll have to remember that. [laughing]	labels:Or one shot or-
text:Yeah, One shot.	labels:-one glass of wine or one beer.
text:Okay.	labels:Um-
text:Just one though?	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:That's it.	labels:Yeah. Uh, the, uh- the idea of, um, having the friends and not drinking, is that something that i-- Would be even, uh, a reality?
text:Yeah, I guess. I-I think I probably know a couple of friends that don't drink and I don't really, uh, probably--	labels:Then, who are- who-who-who are they?
text:I'd have to really think about it. I don't really have too many good friends. You know, I have some acquaintances that don't drink but-	labels:Would it--
text:-pretty much everyone I know like drinks.	labels:Yeah, so wha-what would-- What do you think it would do to the relationship of you not drinking but still being with the-these folks-- These friends?
text:Yeah, I, uh--	labels:Would-would it work out and--
text:I don't know. Just, it's weird, I-I think that, you know, kinda when I go there, you know, and-and hang with them at all, it's, uh-- You know, we- you know-	labels:It's uncomfortable.
text:Yeah. Yeah, exactly.	labels:What makes it uncomfortable?
text:Well, 'cause they're drinking and then- and if I'm drinking soda, they kind of mess with me a little bit.	labels:How-- So, messing with you would be like what?
text:Well, they just mess with me until I get-- You know, until I drink a beer with them, you know. So--	labels:Oh, and-and-- Oh, I see, yeah.
text:You know, I mean, just-	labels:Yeah, like sort of-
text:-they're just kinda like egging me on, I don't know.	labels:Oh, yeah, yeah.
text:You know, I really don't feel like being an outcast, you know what I mean, they're my friends, you know. I--	labels:Right, so you make--
text:I've been with them since, you know, like high school. So, I can't.	labels:Mm-hmm, and-
text:They mean a lot to me.	labels:-it's [unintelligible 00:24:05]. I-I-I know that you, um- you value friendship and-and friendship is very important, uh, and, I'm just wondering how important, um, it would be for, uh, you to remain friends with them and still have your-your sobriety.
text:I guess maybe it would probably be not a bad idea to not hang with them for a little bit, I guess. You know, I mean, I-I-I-- Yeah.	labels:And see what happens.
text:Yeah, sure. I gu- I think that would be something I could probably try.	labels:Yeah-yeah, how important would it- would it be? Zero being not so important and 10 being pretty important that you--
text:Well, if I need to get my license back, I think it would be pretty important for me to stop hanging around with them for a while, you know.	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay. [unintelligible 00:24:52] something you'd be willing to try. Okay.
text:Yeah, absolutely.	labels:It sounds-- That sounds good.
text:Yeah.	labels:Well, maybe that's something that we could talk about next time if you- if you want to.
text:Yeah, yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:I think that would be a good idea. Uh, is this gonna help like get my license back, like, at this-- Like, the-the plans that I've made, is that gonna really help me like--	labels:Well, I sure-sure would, um, tell the-the people who-who need to know-
labels:-and then, um- and then it would be up to you mostly. The choice is-is completely yours. And, um, it sounds like to me that there's no reason why you wouldn't be able to do this. You've given it a lot of thought, and you have some plans in place, and anything else that you might come up with, uh, to help you stay out of the driver's seat when you've been drinking.	text:Um, probably just not really drink as much. I mean, if I just didn't drink, I wouldn't have to really worry about that too much either.
labels:Then you wouldn't have to worry.	text:Yeah.
labels:Yeah, because worry's no fun.	text:Yeah. This is true. Yeah.
labels:All right. Well, thank you Mike. I appreciate this.	text:Okay. Thank you.
text:Okay, like what?	labels:Well, you filled out this survey for us today, which was great. Thank you very much. I just wanted to review a couple of things on here. I noticed that you said that you drink two to three times a week, drink three or four drinks at a time when you do drink, and weekly, um, have more drinks than that. So six or more drinks, it says on here.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Does that sound realistic?
text:Yeah, uh, on the weekends?	labels:Okay, okay. I just wanted to let you know, I'm a little bit concerned about your level of drinking. We know that excessive drinking can make problems worse or can actually cause health problems at times, and I was just wondering if you thought about the connection between your drinking and things like the anxiety and the insomnia that you came in with today?
text:No, I guess I haven't really thought much of it. Um, you know, I don't really think I drink that much in the first place-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-so I have a hard time believing that it's causing my anxiety.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:In fact, on the nights when I don't drink, I-I have a harder time going to sleep.	labels:Well, you're not alone, a lot of people think that drinking helps them sleep better, and in reality, drinking might make you fall asleep faster, but it has what's called this rebound effect, and this rebound effect means that you wake up, may, might wake up in the middle of the night or early in the morning and have a hard time falling back asleep.
text:Well, I, yeah, I guess I do have abo-about 2:00 AM, I tend to wake up on the nights I drink too much.	labels:Mm-hmm. Well, I just wanted to just show you this little chart here. For your age as a male, you're drinking more than those at a low-risk level. Um, the low-risk level for men under 65 is no more than 14 drinks a week and no more than four a day. And, in this case, a drink is considered 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or an ounce and a half of distilled spirits. And you're right, you're not drinking as much as some people out there. The way you answered our questions here, you're actually falling in the high-risk category, the risky or hazardous category, category two.
text:Jeez, no. I didn't think I was that bad.	labels:That's why it's helpful to look at this and give some perspective. On a scale of 1-10, what is your readiness to change, 1 being I don't want to change at all, and 10 is I really want to change?
text:I don't know. I mean, this is all news to me. I've, I don't want to do anything to put myself at risk and I've always thought of myself as a pretty healthy guy. I guess I'd put myself right in the middle of the five.	labels:Well, that's great. That's halfway there. What kept you from just giving it a one or two, something lower?
text:Well, you know I'm training for the marathon, and that's why I'm coming in, is because I need to be able to get my sleep back on track, but I also don't think of myself as a hazardous drinker, and I'm certainly not an alcoholic. So, that's-that's why the middle-ground, five.	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay. Well, that's a good place to start. So, I heard you say your health is important, and you're getting ready to run a marathon, so you wanna be able to do what you can to make that successful. And you also were a little bit surprised that you fell into this risky or hazardous category.
text:Yes.	labels:Okay. So, based on all that information, what are you willing to think about doing to change right now?
text:Well, I-I think the natural thing would be to cut back a little on my drinking.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, what would that look like for you?
text:Mm, um, you know, I-I guess drinking no more than maybe three or four times a week, and-and on the weekends, which is when I would drink the most, cup back to no more than five or six beers.	labels:Okay, okay. Well, sometimes when people aren't ready to make changes like this, it helps if they write down their goals, it gives them a chance to see them in black and white. If you were to look at this little form here and figure out where you want to go with your drinking, what would you put down as your goal?
text:Um, doing the math, I guess no more than 18 drinks a week.	labels:Okay. So that's an improvement. So you're headed in the right direction. I do wanna let you know that with 18 drinks a week, you're still falling above this low-level risk category, and that it would be my recommendation that at some point you would fall below into this 14 or less a week. But it's an improvement, and it's a great place to start, and I really commend you for your willingness to take a look at this and try to make some improvements.
text:Thanks.	labels:So I'm hoping that in your appointment next month, we can touch base on this and see how it's going.
text:Sure.	labels:Okay. Good.	episode:True
text:I don't know. I'm just having a little bit of, uh, having a little bit of trouble dealing with, uh, my criminal history and, uh, you know, trying to stay on the right path, but, you know, um, it's just- it gets, you know, it gets kind of overwhelming, you know. Um, I really wanna be, you know, a good productive member of society, but at the same time, you know, I got this background that nobody will overlook, you know. So it kinda makes it like, well, what, you know, do I go back to what I know?I mean, you can only work for $5, $6, $7 an hour for so long, and it's really frustrating. It's causing, uh, some anger issues to resurface and some depression to resurface and, um, you know, and, um, I don't wanna fall back, you know.	labels:It's really getting in the way of you becoming who you wanna be.
text:Yes, it is.	labels:Yeah. So what-what-what about your criminal record is blocking you from getting where you wanna be?
text:I don't know what about it is, um—	labels:There's a, uh, your record has a conviction?
text:Yeah. It has a felony conviction on it.	labels:Okay. Ah, there's-
text:And, uh—	labels:-the big trouble. Yeah.
text:Yeah, it is. And it's- I hadn't anticipated that it would have been-- You know, so at the time, it was just like, "Okay, cool. I'm not going to jail."	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:You know, and, um, now, it's like, okay, so this is more like a life sentence than it was a four-year sentence that they were offering. You know, I mean, I think it would have been bad either way, but, um, I hadn't anticipated that this was gonna be this difficult, especially since I went back to school and, you know, uh, got a degree and actually want to do, you know, some, um, corporate level or, you know, professional type of work.	labels:Mm-hmm. So when you, um, when you put in applications or anything like that, the felony con-conviction, whether you know it or not, seems to knock you out of the ballpark. You're not even considered as an applicant?
text:No, I'm not. Um, in situations where I don't know about it, I don't know about, I mean, if I'm not considered because of that, I probably-- Um, you know, that sucks too. Don't get me wrong. I mean, I-I don't- I don't get callbacks a lot because of that issue-	labels:Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
text:- I'm sure. The ones that really count are-are-are, you know, are kind of just, you know, uh, making me so angry and, you know, kind of spilling over into the rest of my life or the ones that I get face face, especially after a really good interview. And, you know, most of the times, I interview extremely well. And, um, it's, you know, I get the vibe that the job is offered almost halfway through the interview because, you know, they start telling me about what I'll be doing and what I'll be getting.And then, you know, when it comes to sign on the paperwork and I believe in honesty, so I tell them, you know, hey, look, this is what you're gonna find, you know, and, um, try to explain it. It's just-it's almost like night and day.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Black and white. It just stops right there. "I'm sorry. I can't really do much for you. I-- You have to go," you know, and it's—	labels:So do you- do you, um, put out there about the felony conviction before you even go for the interview?
text:No. I mean, there's different situations, you know. Sometimes they ask and, you know, I'll say something like, you know, "We'll discuss at interview". Uh, sometimes, there are situations where if I probably put that, I don't get a callback and those situations I don't know about. You know, but there are also times where I get an interview through, um, you know, uh, uh, some sort of connection or something, or like a buddy of mine or a family member will send me on an interview. You know, I don't have to fill it out- fill out an application for that. They just usually, you know, give you the interview. And at the end-	labels:Seems like it's a done deal.
text:Yeah. It seems like it's a done deal. You just have to go through the motion of having the interview. And then-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-when I go through the interview and it goes well, and they're like, "Okay, well, you know, I think we can do something" and then, "Here, sign this, sign that," and the other thing. And it's like, but we just had a great, you know, I mean, I qualify. Like what does that have to-- Seven years ago, six years ago, what does it have to do with anything? Now, especially because, you know, the type of conviction, it wasn't a non- it wasn't a violent conviction. It's not like I'm a danger to the staff around me. It's not like it's a, you know, a theft type of thing. It was, you know, it was a possession, you know what I mean?	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And	labels:So you didn't hurt anybody.
text:No, I didn't.	labels:You didn't hurt anything, right?
text:It's really frustrating because-	labels:Yeah.
text:-it's almost like I-I don't wanna give up, but it's like, I'm not given any other choice, you know?	labels:Yeah, 'cause you're-you're, especially with going back to school and having done all that footwork and stuff. I mean, you really have something to offer somebody.
text:I do, yeah.	labels:Yeah. And, um, and at the time the big crisis was actually maybe prison and all the crisis around the arrest and-and, uh, you know, it's like you're a leper and the leper colony.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Um, have there been any times when you've started the interview with that conversation so that you don't even have to go through the whole thing and then get rejected?
text:Not that I can think of, no.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I think—	labels:What do you think would happen if you did that?
text:Probably get booted out right away-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-you know? Um—	labels:Would that be, um, what would they be like versus getting through this great interview, knowing you're-you're good for the job and all that kind of stuff, and then they boot you out?
text:Well, it's-it's sucks either way. You know what I mean?	labels:Mm-hmm. It's, uh, I mean the lesser of two evils is that what we're getting at-
labels:Right. If that's a deal-breaker and you both know it from the very beginning, I'm wondering if then really the interview is really something else. I mean, whether they get the job would truly be based on the interview and not-not your criminal record.	text:Yeah, I think as far as maybe efficiency, you know, weeding out the things, not wasting my time, you know, but I had to tell you something, a lot of the people that don't care about that type of thing-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-are not the sort of jobs that I really wanna be doing. You know what I mean? Um, I don't know, it's just really frustrating.
labels:Not like you're working for the government or for a bank or, you know, the FBI where- those are not things you're applying for. They're jobs where you would wonder why a-a non-violent felony would even--	text:Be an issue.
labels:Right.	text:Right, and then the other thing is anybody that I might tell that to-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-that doesn't care-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-are probably not jobs that, you know, are worth going to get the interview.
labels:Mm-hmm, you didn't go to college for that.	text:Right.
labels:Mm.	text:Do you know what I mean? If I want to work at a moving company and I tell them off the bat, you know, from the gate, I tell them I have a felony conviction, just so you know before the interview and they don't really mind. I mean, that's great, you know, but at the same time, I don't- I'm not looking to be a mover or-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-a burger flipper or something like that. Not that there's anything wrong with it, but I feel like I have a little bit more to offer-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-you know, and, um, I don't know, it's a really, it's-it's like being caught between a rock and a hard place.
labels:Mm-hmm. So, what have you looked into about, um, you know, advocacy in that area or expungement or anything like that?	text:I have done, and my eyes have, you know, just become like mush after all the reading I've done on this situation.
labels:What did you find out?	text:I found out that I have the type of, um, felony that's expungable, I don't even have the type that's sealable. I have apparently the type that has to go on the governor's desk next to death row, you know, inmates or the candidates for, um, a gov- a governor's, uh, pardon. I-- That's what it all boils down to is that I have a class one felony-
labels:Uh-huh.	text:-that needs to be, if any, you know, options, the only option I have is for, um, governor's clemency and I can't figure out why because it's-it's, I mean, I just, I maybe there is a loophole somewhere, I don't know.
labels:I-I didn't know that. So I, you know, I know a little bit about it, um, and not, yeah. So that's-that's very interesting. Oh, what about advocacy groups?	text:I've looked into, um, a fe- um, I've looked into a few groups that are supposedly helping convicted felons get-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-work.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Um, again, the-the only-- I mean, I think what I saw was a whole bunch of, you know, dead end jobs.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:And the other thing that I saw was that it was very politically charged. You know, I didn't think that, um, I was, uh, you know, allowed to kind of get an interview right away with one of those counselors that they offer. Um, I-- it just didn't seem like a type of place that was willing to help, you know. And-and, uh, I saw that there was a lot of, um, I wouldn't say racism but I would say a little bit of racial favor, I suppose. And, uh, I found it really hard to get in and to get an interview with a counselor to match me up with a job. Um, I think that those-those types of groups are cool if they work. I just haven't had any luck with, um- at working with- through that group.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:You know?
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Um, you know, I don't know. I don't know if there's anything else out there.
labels:Mm-hmm. So you're-you're Middle Eastern. So you wonder-- I-I bet you've had experiences where you really have experienced some absolute racism and prejudice because of that.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:And then, um, you walk into these places and they might just be almost storefront-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-type places. And the job market is terrible.	text:Right. It's-it's, uh-- There is a lot stacked up against me.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Let's just put it like that.
labels:Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.	text:You know, uh, but that isn't—
labels:What do you have going for you?	text:Well, that's what-- yeah. That's-- I mean, uh, I'm able to, um-- I'm able to carry a conversation.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:So at some point, I would imagine that maybe I strike up conversation with the right person-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-that would probably want to hire me regardless of that sort of thing. Um, I think that at the this point in time, that it doesn't really matter what degree you have. I don't believe that it matters where you went to school. I think it's all about who you know. You know, we live in a very politically charged city. And I think that even if we didn't live in a politically charged city, at this point, jobs are so scarce that people who know people who know people are the ones that are ending up, um, at work-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-and getting jobs. And I think that, um, if I continue to, you know, go to school and, uh, you know, uh, get time from that felony, you know. So it's been seven years now and—
labels:It's a long time.	text:Yeah. And at some point, I probably don't even have to report it, you know, and I have that going for me. It's been seven years. I have the fact that I'm, you know, uh, good at, um, interaction with people, that's good.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:You know, um, I've been clean from that sort of lifestyle for that long so that's-that's-that's up for me, you know, that's-that's good. Um—
labels:And you can- you can prove that and document that.	text:Yeah.
labels:Yeah. A lot of folks can't.	text:They don't.
labels:Yeah. And you've been going to school. I mean, all-all your movement is in this really positive, highly motivated way. And, um- and I think your-your thoughts and ideas about the fact that one day a conversation will- you'll strike up with somebody and it will happen to be with somebody who works for a company that perhaps does not have a policy against hiring people with felony convictions.	text:Yeah. Well, that's my hope.
labels:It's individual. Yeah.	text:Yeah. That's my hope.
labels:It-it is individual.	text:It is. It should be. You know, I-I—
labels:It-- I believe it is.	text:Yeah.
labels:There's no-- I don't think, any State or federal law that says.	text:No, no. It is an individual but you're right. Yeah. It's—
labels:Okay.	text:But here's the thing is—
labels:Right person, right company-	text:Right.
labels:-we're looking for here. Yeah.	text:The thing is after, you know, after the 9/11 attacks, a lot of companies have blindly implemented, you know, those types of situa- and-and there's no- there isn't, at this point-- I mean, I don't think, at this point, there is no real sure fire way to find out what those reports are, you know, accurate or not. I mean, there's a lot of situations where people's reports are not even accurate about their criminal background.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:I think that-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-blindly, people have implemented those types of, um, measures and they don't have any efficiency with them because they don't- you know, I mean, everybody is offering background checks now and stuff like that. And I'm- that's one of the things that I'm afraid of is that people are implementing all these security security measures, but they don't really know if the reports are even accurate, you know.
labels:I wonder what it'd be like if you ran your own background check and got the report to see what's in there.	text:I have.
labels:Oh, you do?	text:Yeah, I do. I have one and, uh, um.
labels:Good for you doing that.	text:Right, yeah.
labels:Yeah. Smart.	text:Yeah. Thank you. I don't know. I'm just, I guess-
labels:Discouraged.	text:-what I'm really—
labels:Discouraged, yeah.	text:Yeah, I'm really here because I think I'm- I-I- It's a very dangerous area for me when I'm discouraged because-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-you know, all the- despite all the good things that I have going for me, the only thing that's loud and clear are the things that I don't have going for me.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:If that makes any sense.
labels:Uh, yeah, it does. Uh, I am yet to- it-it seems to me just in this time we've been talking together that you, um, um, do have a sense that a lot of it has to do-do with, uh, timing, luck, who you know, and being, are you able to have that conversation where you know that you can sell yourself and your skills and, um, and your competencies and the fact that you've overcome so many things like, um, substance abuse problem and, uh, have been, you know, uh, a good upstanding citizen all this time. Um, to me, if I were an employer, you know, I would- I would be impressed with that.	text:Thank you.
labels:Uh-- You're welcome. And- so what about, um, I know I had a client that told me a couple of things. He was doing some work on this, uh, if you- if you'd be interested I could tell you what he shared with me.	text:Yeah, yeah, I am.
labels:Okay. Um, he found the most valid information on blogs done by felons.	text:Oh, okay.
labels:They are your experts.	text:Very interesting.
labels:And, uh, they-they are actually, uh, uh, much what you have said, they said, but they also, uh, uh, talked about which places and companies they did find were open. For instance, family-owned businesses just tend to-- They can, if they can--	text:Yeah, again, it's like who you know, right?
labels:Right, right.	text:I know that-
labels:Or start your own business. That was another thing that I thought was really--	text:Yeah, well, I think that's what I got. That's what I am doing. That's what I'm sort of involved with now is like, you know, find, um, you know, I'm still continuing to go to school, but I'm also starting, um, work for myself. Um, you know, it's not no Fortune 500 company or anything, but I do have a little bit of income coming in from that.
labels:Uh-huh.	text:Um, it-it, uh, you know, it will all come together.
labels:So being an entre- being an entrepreneur fits for you.	text:You know what? Actually, one of the things is that I read is that is that's one of the things you gotta do is just, uh, start your own business. You know what I mean? Uh, you don't have to report to anybody. I mean, obviously, I can't work with, um-- unless I get a waiver I can't work with, like, I think the law says I can't work with kids or, um, like a hazmat stuff.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Like truck driving and stuff like that.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Uh, but that doesn't matter to me. You know what I- you know, I'm kind of- I'm trying to look at the things that I can do.
labels:Well, that, you know, now that's a-a really different way of looking at it than how you were looking at what you can do versus what's getting in your way that you know you can't do.	text:Right.
labels:So, um, what kinda- what-what are you starting? What's this business? If you-you don't have to tell me if you don't want, I know it's on the up and up, but you don't have to tell me if you don't want.	text:No, it's, um, uh, like a party planning event, you know, like a wedding planning, not like a wedding planner, but like—
labels:You'd be so good at that.	text:Like, you know, like corporate events when they have, you know, like an event, you know, they need-
labels:Uh-huh.	text:-you know, they need chauffeured transportation, limos, they need that type of thing. I, um, I'm involved in the planning of the transportation from airports, uh, hotel arrangements, um, uh, booking of, uh, you know, the rooms. It's just, I guess just an event planner, but it's not through any sort of corporate, um, uh, company [unintelligible 00:19:40].
labels:You-you would be the corporate company.	text:Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm trying to get—
labels:CEO.	text:Yeah.
labels:[laughter]	text:I don't know about that, but, you know.
labels:So. Yeah, I- I've heard that-that in recession, uh, those are often the best opportunities for people to start doing business is to, um, see an area where you see a need go in and fill it.	text:Yeah, I think that's my only, uh, uh, I know it's not my only-
labels:One.	text:-but it's-it's- it's a good, It's a good opportunity to, um, kind of work for myself. I would love to just be able to work for myself, you know? Um.
labels:You're comfortable with that?	text:I am, I am comfortable with it and I do well. I do well at-at, you know, the few opportunities I've had to organize something like that. Um, it's okay. You know, um, at least I'm still going to school though, you know I'm going to be done with that.
labels:I know. That's fantastic. It is.	text:I don't want to act out, you know, I mean, I'm, you know, I think I have-
labels:Acting out would be what?	text:Well, you know, I dunno, um, going back to a lifestyle, you know, crime or, um, using, or you know, just destructive behavior-
labels:Okay. Gottcha.	text:-and sort of destructive behavior. I don't wanna be destructive. I wanna be productive, you know.
labels:Like you are now.	text:Like I am now, but it's-it's starting to get-- Like I said, I mean, I wouldn't have come in here if things were just peachy keen, you know what I mean? It sucks. And I'm getting sick of, you know, rejection and it's like almost, it makes me think like, why am I even going to school? You know? Should I just drop out and just, you know, get jobs that are, you know, I mean, that's not enough, that's not a viable option for me either.You know, I just, I don't, I wanna make sure that I'm centered here so that I can go out there and do the best I can with maintaining composure, and then trying to get ahead. But if I'm not okay here, here, you know, I just, I don't think that I have, I don't stand a chance, you know?
labels:So the-the-the law of, um, felony convictions is-is something that you don't have any control over. I mean, nobody does. So, um, you know, and I'm thinking about how you were talking about getting all the way through the interview and then getting rejected, you know, versus being upfront about it and-and even on the telephone to see whether it's a deal breaker or not, because it must- it sounds like it's so much harder to have that good interview and walk out of there ad know you've done well, and then get turned down.	text:Yeah. I mean, I just recently had one of those where I was gonna be offered. I- he-- I think he was-- I'm pretty sure he was offering him a really good job.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:And, uh, it was an interview given to me by my brother, you know, who knew the guy. And, um, it went great until he gave me the paperwork to sign for a background check. And I said, well, you know, I'll sign it, but I just wanna let you know that this is what you're gonna find.
labels:And your brother didn't know that when he gave you the lead on the job, that there was a background check involved?	text:No, he did. He said, you know, don't say anything until, you know-- I don't know if I know what he said. I think he said that he's not sure if they do.
labels:Okay.	text:He said, just go ahead and give it a shot anyway, you know, and, um, I just, I figured I'd just give her a shot, but I think I like your, I think to spare myself some, uh, frustration and further agony-
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:-I think that I might try that. I think I might try, you know, from now on you know, uh, finding like a tactful way of asking, you know, I don't wanna be blunt about it and go you know, "Do you hire criminals?" or anything.
labels:You're not a criminal.	text:I'm a former criminal though.
labels:That's right. You're rehabilitated.	text:Yeah.
labels:A plus shining new guy.	text:Right. So, I know that I am a new guy, but, uh, they don't, you know, so I think society's a lot less forgiving.
labels:Oh, I think so, too.	text:And individuals, and um, so I think I'm gonna try-- I think that's a really good idea is to kind of like weed out, you know, but how do you say that? You know. How-how do you possibly tell somebody, you know, how do you- how do you get that out there before you go in?
labels:I guess I would just have a tendency to say it. I'm a recovering person, and back in my former life, I have a felony conviction. And before we go any further, I don't wanna waste your time. Uh, would that be a problem in even getting the interview, what would you think about saying something like that?	text:Hmm. Seems, uh, sort of forward, you know, but I-I think that it's probably better if I do tell them so I don't waste my time and hope.
labels:Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.	text:You know, yeah. I think I'm gonna try that from now on.
labels:Okay. I mean, I'd be happy if you wanna work on a few, you know, things, uh, to write down that sound comfy and fit, you know, how you talk and you use words and stuff. 'Cause I-I also think, you know, interviewing is a good schoo- a good skill, and the more you do it, the better you get at it. And you've been getting a lot of practice at it. So that's-that's been useful too.	text:Yeah.
labels:I mean, even-even though you get turned down, that feels terrible. The actual and, I bet you with every single one, you get better at it.	text:Yeah. I mean the interview process-
labels:Uh-huh, uh-huh.	text:-itself, no, I don't think I ever- yeah. No, I-I mean, I don't believe that I have a problem with the actual interview process.
labels:Yeah. I bet you're even better now.	text:Yeah. It's been a lot.
labels:You got lots of practice.	text:Been a lot, yeah.
labels:Yeah. Well then lastly, just getting back, um, to this, another source that that same client was an advocacy group called the John Howard Society.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:I don't know if you've ever-	text:I have heard of it. I haven't-
labels:Yeah.	text:-looked into it yet, but-
labels:Uh, he, yeah, uh, he- they have a lot of, uh, they have a lot of really good stuff on there about this because they're trying to change the laws about that because-	text:Yeah.
labels:-they are so, um, they are so prejudicial. They really are. And I would check with the ACLU too. I mean, just as I-I don't know much, and now I'm very curious and I wanna find out about it myself, but yeah.	text:Yeah. I know. I-I've done some research on it for school.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:And, uh, it turns out it's a big cause of the recidivism rate. You know-
labels:Oh, absolutely.	text:-as far as people going back-
labels:Absolutely.	text:-to what they know, and, uh, and it's, uh, there is prejud- uh, prejudicial motivation, uh, and there is—
labels:You're not allowed to vote.	text:It's really frustrating. I know.
labels:And you're not allowed to vote.	text:I think that- I think- I think ignorance is what really—
labels:That shocked me when I found that out.	text:Yeah.
labels:I couldn't believe that.	text:Yeah.
labels:Do you know how many millions of people and when you think about that racially, um, hmm.	text:Yeah, exactly.
labels:Yeah, mm-hmm.	text:You know, I know there's-there's just a lot of- a lot of bullshit.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Yeah.
labels:That's a great word for it there. Yeah. So, um-	text:Yeah, to figure out [unintelligible 00:27:30] anyway, you know.
labels:Yeah. So-so maybe you- if you- if you wanted to, and this is really up to you, you could check out the blogs, you know. Um, I can see if I can track him down and stuff and the John Howard Society. And, um, I'd be really interested if-if you wanna get together to see what you have found out.	text:Yeah. I-I, you know, I, you know, like I said, I wanna make sure I come back and, um, kind of get my, um, you know, my overall mental health-
labels:Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.	text:-you know, um, I wouldn't say stable because I'm not that unstable. I just—
labels:But this has affected it.	text:It has affected it.
labels:Rejection-rejection, yeah.	text:Yeah, rejection. Yeah.
labels:Yeah.	text:So, I just wanna make sure that I'm okay. So-
labels:Yeah.	text:-I'll be back and we can, you know, we can discuss it further if you have any information and I'll share whatever I've got.
labels:I'll do some checking around for you. I will. Yeah.	text:Well, thanks for the suggestions. Yeah.
labels:Oh, you are welcome. Thanks for being so open with me. I appreciate it.	text:No problem.
labels:Yeah. Okay.	text:Thank you.	episode:True
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Um, before we get into that, I see you filled out our annual screening forms here. So if-if you're okay, can we take a minute to talk about that?
text:Sure.	labels:Okay, great. It looks like, um, the way you filled out the alcohol form puts you into our, uh, third zone of drinking. Can you- can you tell me a little bit about your drinking habits, where you drink, what do you like to drink?
text:I drink wine-	labels:Okay.
text:-mostly. Um, I go down to the little pub down the street.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Have a few glasses of wine.	labels:Okay. Kind of socializing?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:All right. How often do you do that?
text:Hmm, for four times a week probably.	labels:Okay. And on a regular night, how much do you-- how many glasses of wine would you guess you drink?
text:Three to four, five.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Maybe if it's on a weekend, maybe six.	labels:Okay. Okay.
text:Over a long-- over a period of time.	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay. So let me just show you on this, um, card here, um, from a medical perspective, we know that there's good evidence that shows that women you're age who drink more than, um, three drinks on any one occasion at any- at any sitting or more than seven in a week, are likely to run into health problems from their drinking, either problems they're having right now or maybe in the future.
text:Are you serious?	labels:Yeah. Surprised, ain't you?
text:Seven drinks in a week doesn't seem like that much?	labels:It sounds like you're drinking a bit more than that right now.
text:Yeah, and I-I didn't think it was much, but that makes it look like I'm drinking way too much.	labels:Mm-hmm. From this, uh, drinker's pyramid over on this side of the card, you can see that the-the score on your screening sheet shows that you're up in the harmful category of drinkers. So that it's likely you're drinking, you know, in quantities probably more than about 90% of the folks who come in to see me here at the clinic.
text:Well, I know my drinking has increased a little since I got divorced and moved to Portland, but I-I don't think it's that much of a problem.	labels:It doesn't feel like a problem to you right now, yeah.
text:No, not really.	labels:Yeah, okay. And then the other thing I should mention, Jill, um, drinking more than these quantities, it's-it's possible it could be pushing your blood pressure up a bit, and I'm wondering if that might be affecting the difficulty we're having getting your blood pressure down right now.
text:I didn't realize that drinking had anything to do with blood pressure.	labels:Mm-hmm. Yeah, it can sometimes.
text:Oh, well. Well, then I guess that could be a problem.	labels:My perspective as a doctor, it would be good if you could think about cutting back a little bit or doing something different about your drinking. What-what do you think about that?
text:I guess I can cut down some.	labels:Okay. So on a scale of 0 to 10, 0 being not ready at all to do that and 10 being very ready, where would you lie on that scale?
text:I'd probably a 6.	labels:Okay. Okay, so that sounds-- I think that's great. So why would you be up at a six and not down at a two level? What kinds of thing would push you to be there?
text:Well, I didn't realize that drinking was related to my blood pressure problems.	labels:Yeah.
text:And I did fall earlier this year on my home from the bar and hurt my shoulder. I don't think the drinking made me fall, but it probably didn't help the situation.	labels:Okay.
text:And though my son keeps telling me that I'm drinking too much, and it's scary to think that my drinking is harmful. It's a big word.	labels:Yeah. Yeah. So you've got some good reasons to try to cut back a little bit.
text:Sounds like it to me.	labels:Yeah. And it sounds like you're willing to maybe try not going to the bar quite as much and maybe drinking a little bit less when you go to the bar.
text:I think I can try to do that, yeah.	labels:Okay. So to what levels do you think you could do that? Where-where would you wanna go with your drinking?
text:I guess I could use those numbers, and I can't make any promises, but I could try to drink less than three in a night and less than seven in a week.	labels:Okay. Okay.
text:That mean I can only drink two or three times a week.	labels:Mm-hmm. So you'd drink maybe just a couple of times a week and maybe a little bit less on each occasion? Is that what you're saying?
text:Like I can try that, yeah.	labels:Okay. Okay.
text:I don't think I need to quit, but I think I can try to cut down.	labels:And you think you're-you're able to cut down to those levels of no more than seven a week?
text:That's what I'll shoot for.	labels:Okay. I think that sounds like a great step for you as your doctor. Why don't we revisit this the next time you come in to talk about your blood pressure in about six weeks or so and, um, then we can see how you're doing with it.
text:Okay.	labels:All right?
text:Sounds good.	labels:Well, let's get back to your blood pressure then and see what we need to do about that.
text:Sure.	labels:So what's something that you'd like to change or, um, work towards?
text:Well, [sighs] I've been thinking about working out lately. I really want to start working out again. It's-it's been in my mind, I know I need to do it. It's just getting the motivation to do it.	labels:And you've been talking about that a lot lately. So I really-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-feel like this is something that you need to do soon because, um, a lot of times, you're just a lot of talk. And then, there's no action. And if you really wanna see results, I think it's something that needs to be done. And, you know, stop being lazy about it and just do it.
text:Well, I don't know if I'm really being lazy about it. I think it's just that I have a busy schedule.	labels:Yeah.
text:I just need to find the time to do it. And, yes, I might be lacking a little bit of motivation, but I think it's more timing and trying to fit it in.	labels:And that sounds like a lot of excuses to me. So I feel like you had shared with me before that you do have a gym membership. So I think that's something that you just need to fit in your schedule. So for you to really see results that you want, my guess is you need to go about three to four times a week and really fit in that hour workout, um, on a daily basis.
text:But I think that part of the problem is that I-I don't have three to four times- three to four times a week to do it, or an hour even. I mean, hour is a long time because if I'm working out for an hour that means I'm leaving home to get there-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-time there, time back. I mean, it's not just an hour, it's like two hours, realistically.	labels:And it seems like if you really want to see the results you have to put the time in. And if it's gonna take you two hours, then it's gonna take you two hours. And, again, if you want the results that you want, you need to start, and you need to start now.
text:Well, oh, um, okay.	labels:All right. Well, um, I look forward to talking to you tomorrow. And I'm hoping that you're gonna be able to tell me that you went to the gym.
text:Okay.	labels:Thanks.	episode:True
text:Yeah.	labels:-to work on meeting some people, so-
text:Yes, I guess.	labels:-maybe you could tell me about how that's going?
text:Well, I didn't do anything yet. I didn't go-- I know I was gonna go, but I didn't. But, um, I did look at-- there's the YMCA, they've got some classes that I think will be pretty cool to go to, and then there's this yoga class over at the Women's Center that's only like 10 bucks, so I could do that, um-- but I didn't go because I'm really afraid that like what if-- you know, what if no-one likes me? What if I don't have friends in there?	labels:Yeah, I know you've mentioned that in the past. When we were talking about the pros and cons of going out to one of these activities-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-you really mentioned that anxiety-
text:Yeah.	labels:-is a big con.
text:Yeah.	labels:I remember that.
text:Yeah, but I'm gonna do it anyway, because this is what I need to do to make-- you know, to make friends.	labels:Okay. To make a change-
text:Yeah.	labels:-that you've wanted for some time.	episode:True
text:Okay.	labels:Thanks. I want you to know that whenever patients and I talk about alcohol and drugs, my role is to share information and learn from what they want to do, if anything. Does that make sense?
text:Yeah.	labels:Great. So, you wrote here that you've used alcohol in the last year on at least eight days?
text:Yeah. Somewhere around eight days. I'm not sure.	labels:Okay. How would you describe your drinking?
text:Um, I really only drink at parties. I don't drink at home or anything.	labels:Okay. What kind of alcohol do you drink at parties?
text:Um, liquor, whenever people are mixing, um, vodka, sometimes beer, but I don't like beer very much. Um, the drinks at parties are usually like vodka and orange juice or gin and tonics.	labels:How much do you think you usually drink at a party?
text:You mean the whole time I'm there?	labels:Yes.
text:Um, probably four or five drinks.	labels:Speaker 1: Okay. You checked the box here that drinking helps you feel relaxed, feel better about yourself or fit in?
text:Yeah. It makes me feel relaxed.	labels:And you also checked that sometimes you forget things when you drink.
text:Yeah.	labels:What kind of things do you forget?
text:Um, I forget how many drinks I've had like when a friend asks me or I forget whose house I'm at.	labels:Sometimes you forget where you're at.
text:Right.	labels:Here's the part where I share information. The safest level of drinking for teenagers is zero drinks. That's because we know a number of negative things are more likely to happen when adolescents drink. We know alcohol can harm how the brain develops as an adolescent and teens who drink are more likely to hurt themselves by accident. Sexual assault is another thing more likely to happen and so are sexually transmitted diseases. I'm curious, do you think your drinking has anything to do what the possibility of having an STD?
text:Um, yeah. I was drinking the last time I had sex. Um, the guy had been drinking too, and we didn't use a condom.	labels:Do you remember giving consent when you had sex?
text:Yeah. We've had sex before and we've used a condom before.	labels:How do you think drinking alcohol affected using a condom this time?
text:Well, we just didn't stop to put one on. We weren't thinking that way.	labels:Sounds like drinking changes how you think in those moments?
text:Yeah. I would've definitely told him to put on a condom if I was sober.	labels:There's something else I wanna share. When people forget where they are or how many drinks they've had, that's a sign of heavy drinking. And when people keep drinking despite experiencing negative consequences, that can be a sign of what we call alcohol use disorder.
text:Well, that's not me. I don't need help from anyone.	labels:I'm curious. What do you like about drinking alcohol?
text:Um, well, it's fun. I like drinking when my friends are drinking too. Um, I laugh more. It's just fun.	labels:Okay. And what about your drinking do you not like?
text:Um, I don't like forgetting where I'm at sometimes.	labels:Anything else?
text:I really don't want any STDs.	labels:Right. So, on one hand, you like the feeling of being relaxed and having fun when you're drinking and on the other hand, you don't like forgetting where you are or forgetting how many drinks you've had and you don't like putting yourself at risk for STDs?
text:Yeah.	labels:So, when you think about what you like and not like about your drinking, where do you wanna go from here? What would you like to change about your drinking?
text:Well, I definitely don't want to drink too much again.	labels:How ready are you to not drink too much? If I asked you to pick a number on a scale of 0 to 10, and 10 being totally ready, what number would you pick?
text:Um, a nine.	labels:Very ready to stop drinking too much. Why do you think you picked such a high number like nine rather than a lower number like a six or a seven?
text:Well, I really don't want any STDs and I don't like wondering whether I have one or not.	labels:Okay. What plan could you come up with to make sure you achieve that goal?
text:Um, well, I wanna count my drinks so I don't have more than two and I want to stop drinking once I start feeling drunk.	labels:Great. Who could help you reach this goal?
text:Well, I have this friend who thinks I drink too much. She would probably be willing to make me promise not to have more than two drinks at a party.	labels:Okay. And how about unprotected sex? It sounds like you don't want to experience that again.
text:I'm going to talk with him and I'm gonna make him promise that we always use a condom and that we don't have sex drunk.	labels:All right. So, you're very motivated to change your drinking and you have a plan to keep from drinking more than two drinks at parties and keep from having unprotected sex. I would like to share how it's working for you. What do you think about coming back in six weeks or so?
text:Okay.	labels:Great. Thanks for talking with me and I look forward to seeing you again soon.	episode:True
text:Well, um, since we spoke last, I've been to the gym a couple of times.	labels:You have?
text:I have.	labels:That's fantastic.
text:Yeah, and actually, my pants feel a little better too. I'm very pleased with it.	labels:So, what else have you noticed other than your-your pants are fitting better?
text:Um, I do feel better.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:My back—	labels:Your-- my what?
text:Well, my back doesn't hurt nearly so much.	labels:Wow.
text:And, um, but it seems like it's, um-- but it's still hard. I'd like to go more often or I-I guess that I'm-- I just need to be a little more patient with myself because it's, um, I'm not, uh, I'm not-- I wanna be able to like spend more time at the gym but right now, it's um, not, um-- Well, I guess I need to build up to it.	labels:Mm-hmm. So and what would you-- What would- What would help you get to building up to it? Spending more time there.
text:Um, well, I guess just sticking with it and not getting, um, sidetracked.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Like last week, I-I didn't get there at all until like Thursday during the week,-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-so it was- it was a frustrating week like for the gym that way.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I was kinda busy with some other things, but, um—	labels:Mm-hmm. But you made it-- You made it one day-
text:I-I got—	labels:-instead of zero days.
text:Yeah, and actually, I made it again on Saturday too. So.	labels:That's fantastic.
text:Yeah.	labels:Even with this, you know, pretty horrendous schedule going on.
text:Yeah. It's been a little-little hectic, you know. And, uh-- But, I-I don't like it too much because there's all these younger guys that can lift a lot more weight than me or they can stay on the treadmill longer and it-it-it's a little discouraging, you know. 'Cause I don't know if you've noticed, I'm not buff and they are. And it's-it's a little discouraging to think how much work it's gonna take to get, you know, kinda back towards that.	labels:So you-you'd like to get buffed?
text:No, but, um, when-when I'm not at the gym, and I am my normal rational self, I realize that I'm, you know, way, way past the age of where I would really even want to do that, let alone want to spend the time it takes. But then while I'm at the gym, and I see the buff young guys, you know, lifting a lot of weight and all that stuff, then you know, the-- I don't know, the urge to be buff comes up in me.	labels:So, but for right now, it sounds like the-- just having the pants fit better-
text:Yeah.	labels:-sounds really, you know, like it's making you feel good about yourself and—
text:It is.	labels:What other positive things have you noticed about the exercise?
text:Well, I noticed-- Well, I-I still need to work on my diet a lot. I haven't-- I-I'd like to say that by working out at the gym, I have, uh, I've -I've modified my diet, but I haven't very much. I've gotten a little bit better with that, but I'd like to do a lot more.	labels:In what way have you gotten a little bit better?
text:Um, a little bit less junk food. Um, like at times, when I'm like I feel like, "Oh, I think I'll just go have a candy bar," or some worthless thing like that I'll actually have second thoughts before I do it.	labels:So you're at the second thought part. And what do you think would-- might take you, uh, over to actually doing it if you wanted to?
text:Well, I think, uh, when I really start seeing some results at the gym, it's kinda, uh, I think the way it works in my mind is if I've worked out really hard and I've- and I've-- say I've lost a pound that week-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-you know, and then as I'm looking at that double or triple fudge four-decker of ice cream Sunday thing, you know, that somebody is eating, I would say, "Wow, that would be about two hours on the treadmill." Then-then that would be probably-- the-- that would keep me from actually ordering one of those.	labels:Oh, okay. The payoff just wouldn't be worth that two hours of treadmill versus that double fudgy browny thingy.
text:Right, decadent-- Why do they put the word decadent in food?	labels:'Cause it is decadent, it's lovely.
text:Okay.	labels:Yeah, yummy, so-
text:Yeah.	labels:That's really a big problem.
text:Yeah, it's pretty stressful for both of us. He gets really upset.	labels:Well, one of the primary risk factors for multiple ear infections in kids is actually smoke exposure. Are you smoking?
text:Yeah, I-- Yeah, I do smoke, but I don't smoke around him. I try really hard not to smoke around him.	labels:Well, the fact that he's having these ear infections is indicating to me that he is being exposed to smoke, and so, what can you tell me about that?
text:I-I don't know. I mean, I try really hard not to smoke around him. I don't smoke in the car. Um, when he's home, I go outside to smoke. I just-- I mean, I know it's bad, and I know it's bad for him, so I don't want him to be around it so I try really hard.	labels:I really need you to quit smoking. Both for your health and for Aiden. Did you know s-smoking around your child is associated not only with ear infections, it could get to the point where you have to put tubes in his ears pretty shortly here. Also, things like vitamin C deficiency, cavities, like dental cavities, behavior problems, um, asthma, other upper respiratory infections. It's really putting him at a lot of risk. In addition to that, kids of smokers end up smoking themselves. Do you want him to grow up to be a smoker?
text:No, but I don't smoke. I'm-- I-I-I've thought about quitting, but it's just- It's really hard so I just don't know how to do it.	labels:Well, now's the time to quit. It's really gotten to the point where you can't keep smoking. Not only for him, like I said, but also for you. You're putting yourself at risk for lung cancer, for emphysema, for oral cancers, for heart disease, for all kinds of things-
text:I know, I know. I've heard-- People have told me before, I've heard all that. I just don't know how to do it. How am I supposed to quit? It's-it's so hard.	labels:Well, there's all kinds of things you can use now. It's not as hard as it used to be. You can use nicotine replacement. There's patches, there's lozenges, there's gum, there's the inhaler, there's nasal spray. We can talk about medications. You can try Chantix, you can try Zyban, there's quit smoking groups you can go to, there's hotlines you can call.
text:I just don't have time for any of that.	labels:There's no reason why you shouldn't be able to quit, this is really important.
text:I understand that. I know it is. I mean, everybody has problems, right? It's just really-- It's really, really hard.	labels:Well, what can be more important to you than the health of your child?
text:I don't know.	labels:I really need you to tell me that you're gonna quit smoking. This is really important.
text:I'll-I'll-I'll go look at all those things and-and I'll find-- I guess I'll-I'll try to find something, and-and I'll talk to my doctor about it.	labels:Okay. Well, I think you really need to think about this seriously. Like I said, it's really putting yourself and your child in danger.
text:Okay, whatever. Okay.	labels:Okay.	episode:True
text:Um, pretty obvious [chuckles].	labels:So, what happened. So first of all, tell me what you did, exactly.
text:What do you mean what I did?	labels:Well, I mean, where did you cut yourself? I know you said you cut yourself when you-
text:That's the same as always. Same as always.	labels:Like your arm?
text:Yeah.	labels:What did you cut yourself with?
text:A razor?	labels:How deep?
text:Do you wanna see it?	labels:Yeah. Let me see. You know those look to me like they-they-- did you go to the-- It doesn't look like you went and got any stitches, but that looks to me like you could have used them. What do you think?
text:I think have you ever been to an ER when you cut yourself, you'd know why I don't go.	labels:Okay, but part of the problem is those look deep and like you're going to have significant scars. So my suggestion is in the future, if you do it, is that you put some sort of bandaid on it to keep it closed. But let's talk about how, um, how this happened. First of all, tell me, you were telling me on that phone that you wanted to die. But, um, did you-- Was this a suicide attempt or do you think it was just-just a cutting? Were thinking of killing yourself or wanting to kill yourself or wanting to die when you did it?
text:I was thinking about killing myself. You thought you would help me and you didn't. That's what I want to talk about. I wanna talk about how it is that my life is not going better and you are not helping me, and you are not available to me when I need help.	labels:Okay. So let's-- Okay, so it sounds like me not being avai-- Was me not being available with you, rela-related to you cutting yourself?
text:Well, um, I have a two-year-old son, and then I work full time as a server at a restaurant, and then recently, I also started going back to night class, so you know, just the combination of all that, you know. I-I've just been feeling really stressed lately.	labels:Yeah, I could see that. Um, may I ask, are you also a single mom?
text:Yeah.	labels:So you've got a lot of stressors right now. You're a single mom raising a two-year-old, you're working full time, and you're going back to school. What do you think would be the most helpful for us to focus on today?
text:Well, I-I told the counselor that I think childcare is probably my-my biggest issue right now.	labels:Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about that?
text:Yeah. Um, well, my mom normally watches my son, but lately, it's kind of becoming a problem. You know, she like will back out at the last second, and so I've had to call in at work a couple of times. I've had to miss class a few times. So i-it's just stressful worrying about, you know, whether I'll be able to do those things or not.	labels:Okay. So I'm hearing you say that the situation with your mom's not ideal. You actually miss class sometime and had to lose some work shifts as well, and that's problematic.
text:Yeah, exactly.	labels:Okay. Um, outside your mom, is there anyone else that can help with childcare?
text:Um, well, I have a sister, but I don't really trust her to watch my son, and I don't really know that many people that-- the only thing I can think of, I have this one neighbor who stepped in and helped one time when my mom backed out. She-she actually has, uh, a three-year-old daughter, so you know, kind of worked out.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, I don't really know her that well, but I mean, she seems nice and I-I think she did a pretty good job that night.	labels:Hmm. So what I hear you saying is this neighbor was supportive when you really needed her to be.
text:Yeah.	labels:Stepped in last minute. Um, when you picked up your son, you didn't have any concerns and he seemed happy?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. Let's pursue that neighbor a little bit. Um, people like that, I like to think of as natural resources, but I know for a lot of people, the major problem with, uh, childcare is affordability.
text:Yeah.	labels:Have you given any thought to, if you'll be able to afford to pay someone on a regular basis to watch your son?
text:I-- you know, I mean, maybe a little bit, but I don't really make that much money to be able to afford something like daycare or, you know, like full time babysitting.	labels:Yeah, I can understand that. Um, what are some of your natural skills?
text:Well, I mean, I-I like cooking. I'm-I'm actually in school for culinary arts.	labels:Oh, I bet you're a really good cook then. Um, what would you think about a plan where you worked out an arrangement with this neighbor, where in exchange for her watching your son, you would prepare dinner for her and her, um, daughter?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Um, you know, you could maybe swap a meal for child care. What do you think of a idea like that?
text:Hmm. That's, that's interesting. I-I never really thought of something like that, but, yeah, it might work.	labels:Okay. Okay, I'm glad you think so. Um, so, other than this neighbor, or is there anyone else that could help you?
text:Hmm. No, I-- you know, there-there just aren't that many people I trust right now with my son.	labels:Okay, I can respect that. You-you really have to go with kind of your gut and follow your own intuition on that. Um, what about the baby's father, is he of any help?
text:[chuckles] No, no, not at all. He, he really hasn't been in the picture since my son was born.	labels:Okay, fine. You know what? We've got one really good lead with the neighbor. I think if you would follow up in pursuing that, you might find some relief and resolve some of your childcare issues. Um, how many days a week are you in school?
text:It's-it's three nights right now, so I have class on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday nights.	labels:Okay. Um, so what would it look like if you had a plan where both your neighbor and your mom were helping you out?
text:Um, well, you know, if my neighbor could even just take over one day of watching my son, I think that would help my mom quite a bit.	labels:Okay. So what I'm hearing you say is that, if you could just reduce the amount of time that you're needing your mom, she might be more supportive, more onboard?
text:I mean, I think so, yeah.	labels:All right. Um, so what do you think would be your next steps in working out a plan between your neighbor and your mom?
text:Mom, you know, just, I guess talking to my neighbor and seeing if she's even interested in this idea, and if she is, you know, telling my mom about it and, you know, hopefully, that will make her feel a little better and maybe a little bit more reliable.	labels:Okay. Sounds like you got a good plan to follow up on there. All right. Um, now you mentioned that your son is two. When will he turn three?
text:Just a couple months from now. He's almost three.	labels:Okay. Well, in that I-- in that case, I've got another idea for you. Um, what about, um, maybe when he turns three, you could enroll him in Head Start? Are you familiar with that program?
text:I've heard of it, but I don't know that much.	labels:Okay. Head Start is a very affordable, very high-quality preschool program. Um, it was really created for parents and families, just like yours, folks who have a lower income and fewer resources, but Head Start really prepares your child both socially and intellectually for going to school. Um, and you know, by the time he turns three, you may find that that routine is something that's better for him to get used to before he starts kindergarten. Uh, would you like some more information on local Head Start sites?
text:Yeah, I mean, it sounds like it would be really good for my son and, you know, it would help me out in terms of childcare for sure.	labels:Okay. Well, good. Um, all right. It sounds like you've got a good plan there going forward. Um, now I did see from the nurse practitioner's notes, you're also working on reducing your smoking and your drinking. How's that going?
text:[chuckles] Well, you know, I-I've been working on it a couple of weeks now, and honestly, it's been a lot harder than I expected. Um, trying to break my routine in the evenings, especially has-has been hard, but, um, you know, a couple of nights I have reached my goal in terms of, you know, number of cigarettes I'm going to smoke and number of drinks. So, I mean, I've done okay some days, but others, not so much.	labels:Okay. So what I hear you say is that it was a bigger challenge than you expected, yeah, but you're working on it. You're-you're still committed to it. So yeah, that's really to be commended. I just want to ask you one thing though. Have you thought about secondhand smoke and the dangers of that and how that might be impacting your son?
text:Yeah, yeah. I definitely have, so I-I try to never smoke around him, and if I do smoke at home, I always go out to the balcony to smoke.	labels:Oh, okay, good. You know, I can tell you really have your son's best interest at heart here. You know, just from our conversation today, I can tell you're a really good mom. Um, let's reflect back on what we've discussed here so far. Now, we've got a couple of good options between the neighbor and Head Start programs for childcare. What do you see as your next steps in getting that going?
text:Um, well, I guess just first talk to my neighbor and see if she likes this idea, and then if she does, I can talk to my mom about it. Hopefully, that kind of helps her situation out. And then, um, I'm definitely want to look into the Head Start idea because I think that would be really good.	labels:Okay, okay. Good. Um, I think you've got a good plan there. Um, what would you say to us getting back together, say, in two weeks, just for us to kind of revisit and see what kind of progress you've made, you know, if you've got something worked out, great, but if you've hit a bump in the road, I tell you what, we'll put our heads together. We'll come up with another plan.
text:Okay.	labels:All right. Good. Well, I want to thank you again for coming in today, Sarah. It was really nice to have met you.
text:Thanks. All right.	labels:You're very welcome.	episode:True
text:Oh, great.	labels:Yes, always happy to hear that. I do have some concerns though because I'm seeing some irritation in your mouth in the palate that's called nicotinic stomatitis and-
text:That sounds bad.	labels:Yeah, it is. It's some damage to the roof of your mouth that happens from tobacco smoking and so I'm wondering if you can tell me a little bit how-- about how tobacco fits in your life right now.
text:Tobacco. Well, I don't smoke cigarettes. I've never smoked cigarettes. I do go out with my friends. Um, you know, we go out to bars and, you know, we'll have a few drinks and smoke some of those little cigarillo-type things. I mean I wouldn't even think of them as cigars and they're certainly not cigarettes. Um, and I mean I'll have one or two of those in an evening with, uh, with my friends but certainly not 20 or 30 of them a day like you would with cigarettes and that's the only thing that could possibly have anything to do with tobacco.	labels:So you've made a decision in your life not to smoke cigarettes, that's something you didn't want to do. It sounds like you're kinda concerned about the health effects of cigarettes. But you have been smoking the little cigarillos at least one or two every time you go out.
text:But that's- that's just like a- a social thing. That's something that my friends and I do. We-- We-- It's not habit or something that I have to have and, you know, talking about one or two when we go out for an evening. Not packs of them.	labels:Yeah, so you're not-- You're not like those chain smokers, you're not smoking packs and packs a day.
text:Oh, no. No.	labels:The amount you smoke is so miniscule you can't even imagine that it would cause any harm and yet here it is damaging the roof of your mouth.
text:Well, we've-- you have a point there. Mm, now that you mention it, um, I have started having one or two at work, you know, when we have break since I have a couple of friends at work that smoke and so every time we have a break, you know, we all go out to the- the break place outside, um, and so I- now I go with them and I have one of these Swisher Sweets. Um, I like the peach flavor [unintelligible 00:02:32] they're so cute. But that's really only pretty recently.	labels:Uh-huh. So smoking has kind of become a big part of your social life now. When you go out, you're smoking, and even during breaks at work, you're smoking.
text:Well, yeah, yeah. You know now that you say it like that it's true. Um, I am smoking on a daily basis.	labels:So aside from that social aspect, what are the things you like about it?
text:Well, it's relaxing and it's just nice to be with people, um. Um, and you know, when, you know, I like to go to Las Vegas, and so when we go to Vegas, it's really fun to go to the cigar bars, is kind of sophisticated and fun and so, you know, it's mostly a social thing.	labels:Okay.
text:I wouldn't say I was a chain smoker.	labels:Okay. How about the other side? Have you noticed any not-so-good things about the smoking?
text:Well, I was going to ask you about, um, whitening my teeth because I've noticed that they have more stains on them up than a few years ago, and so I imagine that has something to do with the smoking.	labels:Yeah. So we're noticing some pretty negative effects in terms of your oral health with the smoking. Are there any other things that you're concerned about?
text:Um. Well, there's the expense, you know. Wi-with the economy and all, um, I- I have to be careful about my money and so, um, there is the extra expense of if I'm buying more of them than I used to. So the-the money aspect is also a concern.	labels:Mm-hmm. So there's your oral health, there's the financial aspect, and then e-earlier you brought up some concerns about smoking cigarettes and how that can be harmful for you.
text:Oh, yeah.	labels:Were you aware of the fact that smoking these little cigarillos, the Swisher Sweets, can have some of the same negative health effects?
text:Oh, absolutely not. I mean I thought of it more as a- a fun thing to do with my friends, certainly not a smoking habit or anything that would be harmful.	labels:Mm-hmm. So it's kind of surprising to you that something you've been doing and you've been doing more and more of it is actually pretty bad for you.
text:Oh, yes. I checked the box on your form when you asked if I use tobacco, I checked "No," because I never thought of myself as a smoker.	labels:Mm-hmm. What do you kind of make of that now that you realize that you're actually a tobacco user and that you might actually be causing some pretty se-serious health effects.
text:I'm really concerned, I mean, I don't want to, um, develop cancer, lung cancer, or any of the awful things that happen from smoking, and, you know, really, until this conversation, I never really thought of myself as a smoker at all. So-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-I'm very concerned.	labels:Well, the good news is in terms of the nicotinic stomatitis, at the point in which you stop smoking, you can actually reverse all the negative effects that occurred and you might also know that you can stop the progression of any other diseases that had started, just by quitting smoking.
text:Really?	labels:Yeah. Is that something you'd be interested in?
text:Oh, I would. I really would because, like I said, I'm a brand new smoker. I didn't know I was a smoker until I came to see you.	labels:Mm-hmm. Well, if you think about it on a scale of 1 to 10 where 1 is really don't think you could do it at all and 10 is really confident that you could quit if you tried, where do you think you fall?
text:Oh, I think I will probably be in seven or eight. I'm-I'm pretty confident that I could stop doing this.	labels:Okay, what made you choose seven or eight as opposed to a-a five?
text:Because it's not a part of my daily life. I don't have to have, uh, a smoke when I get up in the morning. I don't smoke 20 or 30 of them a day, so it's not that much exposure and I-I feel pretty confident that I could stop.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, it sounds like just to kind of summarize, you've noticed some negative effects of the smoking, you have some concerns about health effects that could occur, there's the financial aspect, and yet you feel pretty confident that you could quit if you tried. So, where do you think we should go from here?
text:Um, I'd really like some more information about quitting. I mean, I've heard there's some-some new medications, there are some new things that can be done to help people make quitting more comfortable and I-I really wanna quit.	labels:Okay, well, I'd be happy to talk to you more about that and give you some tips and advice and give you some suggestions about where you can get some support with quitting.
text:That'd be wonderful. Thank you.	labels:I really appreciate you talking to me about this today.
text:Well, there's a lot of things that bring me here today, but the one thing that I want to focus on is the fact that I really want my son to grow up in a great environment, and just have, like, more than what I had growing up.	labels:Okay. So, you want your son to grow up in a great environment and to have more than you had?
text:Yes.	labels:Is that right? so that's on your mind right now?
text:Yes, that's on my mind. I love my son dearly, and I don't complain about the childhood I had, I had a great childhood. I just-- I guess every parent wants the best for their kids-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and-and I really want the best for him.	labels:Mm-hmm. Is there anything in particular that's happening right now where this is more of a concern for you than usual?
text:Yes, um, me and his father, like, we're-- We were engaged and, um, we're just not at that connection anymore. We're focused on what we want to do in life, and that's kind of put a hassle on our relationship.	labels:What you want to do in life? Can you explain?
text:Yes, I want to become a social worker. I want to help people. That's just what I love to do, and he, um, is currently driving trucks, and so it kind of like puts a damper on everything on our relationship, and we're just like mainly focusing on our son and-and it's just been hard, like, reconnecting.	labels:So you feel that your differences in career choices is-is having an impact on your relationship with your son?
text:Yes, I feel it is, and I just-- I always really wanted like a family, like me and the dad and-and the child.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I-- That's how I feel, that I love my son dearly, but I want to provide him with that, like, we are together, we're doing it together as a team-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-because now that we're going away from each other it's made things more difficult.	labels:Mm. Okay, so your boyfriend?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Is he your fiance or your boyfriend?
text:Um, he was my fiance, but-	labels:Okay.
text:-we called off our engagement.	labels:Okay. And he's a truck driver?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Does he drive long distances-
text:Yes.	labels:-or just local?
text:He drives long distance.	labels:And so sometimes he's gone away from home for, what like, days, weeks?
text:Yeah. Days, and the longest was, like, a week.	labels:Okay. And so he's a truck driver and you are an aspiring social worker, and you have a son who you want to give a really great life to, and you feel that you and your boyfriend are in different, going in different directions-
text:Yes.	labels:-maybe? Is-- Can you elaborate on the part that you're maybe the most concerned about or that's the most on your mind right now?
text:I'm concerned that when he was just local, we were able to do picnics and-and-and do the whole family thing that I just really love, and even though my parents weren't together, we would still, you know-- They were really civil with each other and we would go to Disneyland, we'd go to the-the fairs, and you know, I feel like it's different.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Even though I'm not saying that we-we probably won't be together ever, there's a possibility that that could happen, but I still want that togetherness than apart.	labels:Okay, okay. And so that-that realization that you're having right now is, it sounds like, it seems like maybe, just from your nonverbal, that maybe you feel like you need to make some sort of a choice. Is that right?
text:Yes.	labels:Yeah? Okay.
text:I feel like, um, I'm not, like, valued. We're not valued from his perspective. I mean, that's-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-what I can sense. I can't really make that a final say because he may feel something different.	labels:Well, you know that he's not physically available-
text:Yes.	labels:-to do these things that you want to do-
text:Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.	labels:-like go on picnics.
text:And so when he is available it's kind of like, I guess where he's at and where I'm at is just like, "Why is that a problem for you?" And I'm like, "It is because I want--"	labels:He's saying to you, "why is it a problem?"
text:Yeah, "why is it a problem?" He feels like it's always me who wants these things and-- but I-I made it clear that, you know, I want our son to grow up with the togetherness-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-especially like how my parents had it, you know.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:They weren't the best of friends but they could come together and, you know, it was better together than apart-	labels:Yeah.
text:-and so I'm feeling like there's a-a change and I don't know whether to roll with it or just accept it, accept it. And it's all a balance between mind and-and heart and that's the battle.	labels:So, your heart says you want this great relationship where there's like a true family unit and you can go on picnics and be together but your mind says, what?
text:And if they wanted to do it then, you know, it would definitely work.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And I feel like I don't wanna subject to just accepting things the way they are, especially if that's a concern for me-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-as far as dealing with the togetherness, I feel like if I have a problem, I voice it to you and we solve. You know, we'll try to figure out ways so-- I feel like I'm very more like, the collaborating person. Like, we gotta collab together, let's-- you know, I usually am that person that's, "Let's solve this issue."	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:"Let's not go over the problem over and over and over."	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:"Let's try to think of ways to make it better." And I notice that not everyone's like me in that sense.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And so, do I wanna eventually hurt myself in the long run? Or, you know, help myself by saying, "Okay this is just accepting that he's not in that position, so let me just do what's for me in my heart and, you know-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-stabilize myself to be the best parent that I can be."	labels:Okay, so you know what you want, you're not so sure that your boyfriend wants the same thing. His actions indicate that he doesn't.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:His words indicate that he does or he doesn't? You're not sure? I'm not sure about that part either?
text:Because I know that dealing with perspectives you can, you know, you can't really tell someone what their, you know, perspective is-	labels:Yeah.
text:-but I don't-I don't sense it, I don't feel it and, um, I think that's just what I'm going by and I feel like probably 98% true.	labels:Mm-hmm. So now you have this information and it's on your mind, is there-- have you given any thought about what you might want to do about it?
text:And that's where the sickness comes from.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And that's what I'm confused about because, you know, I'm very-- the type of person that, I don't wanna hold things in but yet I don't want to have to keep explaining-	labels:Mm-hmm. [chuckles]
text:-to you, you know like, I don't want to keep going on, iterating what I want in this relationship-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-especially if I'm listening to you.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:You know, I would want you to listen to me. And I understand by like in the position that I'm in, I've always been the receiver and, um, anybody-- so it's hard for people to like receive, you know, from me so, I'm just like-- Lke I was like sitting, um, yesterday I was kinda feeling down and I just never-- I was looking through my phone actually, this is really funny, I was looking through my phone like, "Who can I talk to?" Because I never really opened up to anybody.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Cause they open up to me and I'm able to listen-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-and so I'm like, "Out of all this, I don't know who I'd-who I'd talk to."	labels:Oh.
text:-and open up to—	labels:So that's another realization.
text:Yes.	labels:It's like, "Wow," it's really, really prevalent for you right now, you realize that you are the caretaker, you are the person who listens to other people but you don't necessarily have someone like that for you and so—	episode:True
text:Yeah.	labels:Hi, my name is Beth. I'm the nurse that works with the nurse practitioner Mrs. Smith that you just saw. Do you have a moment to talk?
text:Uh, sure. What's this about?	labels:I know you were here to get a prescription for birth control but while you were waiting to see Mrs. Smith, you filled out a healthy habits questionnaire-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-and you answered some questions about your marijuana use. Would it be okay if I asked you some questions about how marijuana plays a role in your life?
text:Sure.	labels:I notice you use marijuana regularly, and I wanted to ask you more about that.
text:Well, you know they just decriminalized it in Virginia, it's not a big deal. I'm not in trouble, am I?	labels:No. No, no, no. Not at all. Um, I just wanted to ask you how it helps you and how you use it. Can you tell me a little more about how you use it?
text:It's not a big deal. It's just like a couple times a week to relax.	labels:Marijuana is really useful in your life in helping you relax?
text:Yeah. I mean, I'm here on an academic scholarship so I have to keep my grades up and I'm on the debate team, so there's a lot going on.	labels:Mm. You're a very successful student and you have a lot of responsibilities, and it's really adding to your stress.
text:Well, yeah. The truth is I'm the first in my family to go to college so I don't know, I guess, I'm in a bit over my head.	labels:Mm. You've been very successful academically and the transition to college has been hard for you.
text:I've always been an anxious person. Pot just helps me calm my nerves. I'm I in trouble?	labels:I promise you, you're not in trouble, I wanna help.
labels:Uh, tell me besides helping you relax, what are some positives about pot?	text:Well, some of these kids are just so much more sophisticated than me so I guess when I party with them, I feel like I'm fitting in. I don't know how else to explain it.
labels:Hmm. Uh, when you use pot in a group you feel more at home with your peers and more accepted?	text:I don't know if I feel more accepted, more like I'm trying to fit in by using it.
labels:So how is it working to help you fit in?	text:I'm not sure it is.
labels:Mm. So smoking pot with your peers to try to fit in more but it doesn't seem to be making you feel more comfortable with your friends.	text:Uh, yeah.
labels:What are some downsides to smoking pot?	text:I don't know. I- It helps me relax but I guess I'm nervous I'll get caught. Um, my parents would kill me if they knew that I smoked.
labels:So smoking pot doesn't help you feel more socially comfortable with your peers and it increases your stress because you're worried about your family and legal consequences?	text:Yeah.
labels:Can you think of any other downsides to smoking pot?	text:Well, I don't have the money for it. I just usually bum it off to my roommate, her parents give her a lot of spending money but I don't know, it's kind of embarrassing to have to do that.
labels:So smoking pot also reminds you of your financial situation and you don't have extra cash to spend on things?	text:Yeah.
labels:Katie, it sounds like smoking pot is helping you somewhat in helping you relax and it's also causing you a lot of stress because you're trying to use it to fit in and that's not helping, you're worried about getting caught, you're worried about family disapproval. Having said all that, what do you think you wanna do about your pot use?	text:I don't know. When you put it that way, it doesn't sound like a very good habit.
labels:Would it be okay if I made a suggestion?	text:Okay.
labels:You mentioned at the beginning of our conversation that you have a history of dealing with anxiety, have you ever talked to a counselor about that?	text:No. We don't do that kind of thing in my family.
labels:Can you tell me more?	text:It's just not done. I don't know. It's something for crazy people and we definitely do not have the money for it.
labels:Mm. So the idea of counseling in your family is for crazy people only and it's looked down upon and the cost would cause a problem too?	text:Yeah. I just don't see it happening.
labels:Katie, we know that many kids come to college and have a lot of stress and deal with a lot of anxiety, and we've also found that when they talk to our counselors and learn specific skills about dealing with anxiety, they do much better. Um, and it's been really successful for a lot of kids. Um, I'm wondering if you think it might be helpful for you?	text:I don't know.
labels:Can you describe why you're hesitant?	text:Well, I don't have the money for it so I can't pay for it and my parents wouldn't approve.
labels:Well, the cost is free and the counseling services we provide, we are legally obligated to protect your privacy. We can't tell your parents. There are some exceptions to that privacy rule, including, uh, mostly if we're concerned about- that your safety.	text:What, like suicidal?
labels:Exactly.	text:Uh, I would never do that.
labels:Well, uh, we can go into some more specifics if you decide to see the counselor about what-what privacy rules there are, but for the most part, you wouldn't need to worry about us sharing anything with your parents.	text:Okay. I guess I'll think about it.
labels:So, uh, if-if you're walking out now, I can walk out with you and just take you around our counseling center. I can even introduce you to one of the counselors.	text:Do I have to go there?
labels:No. No, no. I just wanted to show you where it is and let- make sure you know about our resources here at the college.	text:Okay, sure. I agree, let's go.	episode:True
text:Okay, oh, actually, could I confide something in you that has been bothering me lately. Well, prior to that party, like, as you know, I'm a honor student and my parents, like, they keep me very, like k-kept down out of the, like so- like social life.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And, um, about a month ago, my friends invited me to a party. And they used the fact that, Oh, I'm always doing my homework, I'm always studying that to allow me to go to the party. And on-- well, that party, I managed to convince my parents that I would spend the night at my friend's house. So, that's when I started drinking.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:It was a- it was a unique experience, as you can say. I guess you can say. And, I don't know, I-- It was fun, at least, in the moment. So, I kept doing it. Then this past weekend, instead of studying for an exam, I asked my-- I begged my mom to let me go to another party. And she, kind of, knew what I was doing. She asked me to, like, to promise her of no alcohol, no drugs. Then I'll pick you up by 12:00. And I-I was surprised. 12:00-12:00, that's basically when the party starts, but I told her whatever-- I thought- I thought to myself that I'll-I'll come-- I'll figure out to delay her, can you pick me up later? So later, so she-- I promised that-- She dropped me off, I promised her no alcohol, no nothing. So I-- we go, I have fun like I've been having. And I was drinking. And then the time- the time came for her to pick me up. And as soon-- I couldn't delay her from picking me up. And as soon as she picked me up, and I stepped in the car, she said, "You drank vodka." And I'm like, I-I didn't know what to say. I just looked at the floor. And I-I feel terrible because I-I betrayed my mother. I broke my trust with her that she expected me not to indulge in alcohol. And that's exactly what I did.	labels:So, here you are. You're an honors student. You're a star athlete. You've, kind of, been doing everything you've been told for all these years, and maybe last month sometime, you started getting more involved in the party scene.
text:Right.	labels:And it was fun at first. But now you're already noticing some consequences.
text:Yes, right. Like I've been noticing I've been more lethargic and apathetic towards schoolwork.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I haven't really-- I kind of just sit in class like-- I-- my mind is elsewhere, especially on the weekends, where instead of-- I was- I was instead of studying, I caught up with my friends, trying to find where we can-- I get alcohol based on their age and stuff like that.	labels:It's really changed your focus. What do you like about drinking?
text:I don't know. It-It's because I'm a very reserved person, for the most part, not when- not when I'm dealing with sports or like-- you know, like a social environment. I tend to keep to myself because I'm very self-conscious, I would say. And when I- when I drink, I feel, I don't know, like, it relaxes me. I'm able to talk or engage with other people more easily. I don't know it just—	labels:So, it helps you, kind of, loosen up, feel more relaxed.
text:Exactly.	labels:Sounds like you're noticing quite a few not so good things about alcohol though your mom got mad at you, you're having decreased focus, you're, kind of, not doing so well in school, maybe-
text:Kind of.	labels:-or any other things?
text:Just different groups, friends or groups, girlfriends, like different people that I'm hanging out with because certain people are associated with that type of scene.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So, that-that-that's also changed.	labels:So, your-your friends that you were hanging out with, there's a little tension there now.
text:A little bit because not all of them are into that. So, like, I'm in one group of friends, and I would talk to another person that's an another group of friends and they just happen to invite me to that first party.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:So, since then, I've been hanging out more with them, getting to know them. But I can also see that oh, I'm just living life, I guess. But that's also not fair to them that I'm not there for them as much as I was before.	labels:Okay.
text:As they are there for me, you know.	labels:Well, given that you've sort of noticed all these changes where it's affecting your friendships, it's affecting your studying, it's affecting your relationship with your mom. Where do you think you should kind of go from here?
text:Oh, um, I feel I should st-stop. I mean, like, I'm not-not unrealistic. I understand that situations like this will happen.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:It's just up to me not to take it so far, where I can't remember the night before, if I'm puking. All I remember is the toilet-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-that's-that's not worth it, either. And I have to slowly build back my trust with my mother because that was that's a big blow. It's little so I guess may seem to other people.	labels:Yeah.
text:But to me then it's a big thing.	labels:Your mom is really important to you.
text:Of course.	labels:And how she feels about you is important to you.
text:Exactly.	labels:How important is it to you to make, uh, an adjustment in your drinking or even to quit?
text:A lot at this point because I feel that's a big factor with gaining back my trust with my mother.	labels:Okay.
text:And also getting back on top of my school work again my athletics too.	labels:Okay.
text:So I feel that there-there's a future in that.	labels:How confident are you that you could actually change your drinking or-or even cut down or quit?
text:I'm pretty confident, especially.	labels:O-on a scale of 1 to 10 where one is not at all 10 is completely what number would you give.
text:Probably like an 8 or 9.	labels:Okay.
text:And that can't be a ten there's nothing as ten in life I feel. Like there's too many factors but I feel like I'm determined to.	labels:Why did you say eight or nine rather than six or seven?
text:Because I don't know I feel deter-determined to-to make sure this happens because I don't like how I felt after I-I betrayed my mother. I don't like remembering that the feeling of like vomiting.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:It's not a pleasant experience. Uh, it's not something that I wish to enjoy. So like even if I do drink, I don't want to drink to the point where that happens, like all the fun that I have and prior to that just it's not worth-it's not worth drinking.	labels:All right, what do you think's a realistic goal for you then?
text:To make sure I have my studies. Well first, try to get-get back my trust with mother-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-then just focus on my studies. Then if I have time for leisure time like I'll go party with my friends and just be as a party with them doesn't mean I have to drink. And I do one cup is not going to do anything to my life either. But I'd prefer not to do that. I prefer just make sure.	labels:So your goal is kind of to do not drink at all or if you are at a party, uh, a maximum of one at the very most.
text:Exactly. Just so I take part with the social convention but it's not. Hey guys.	labels:Yeah. Chris, I really appreciate you talking with me about this. I know it seems like something that's been on your mind as it is and, you know, like I said I really care about you as a student and an athlete and want what's best for you. So I'm glad we were able to talk about this. It really seems like you have a good plan going forward, you know, really striving for not drinking alcohol at all and if you find yourself in a situation where there's alcohol, making sure to have that limit of one drink maximum. It sounds like something that will work for you.
text:And-and thank you for listening me listening to me. It means a lot to me.	labels:It's my-- yeah it's my pleasure. It's part of my job and it's probably like this so. I'm going to hurry up and get changed for practice.	episode:True
text:Hi.	labels:Thanks for coming in and talking with me for a couple of minutes. I understand you don't have very much time, but I really appreciate you stopping by.
text:Well, I came today because my daughter's in the hospital as well. I think it's important to quit, but I enjoy smoking. I'm not ready to give it up right now. My life is too much in turmoil.	labels:So I get the impression that there are some things that you're concerned about, but that overall, coming in here wasn't necessarily the first thing that was on your mind when you came to the hospital with your daughter. Um, so can you tell me, what was it that made it possible for you to even come in? What-what were some of the things you were thinking about?
text:I think it's important because I've-- I feel I'm a bad role model for my children, and my daughter's turning 12, and already, some of her friends have tried smoking, so I don't want her to think it's a good thing.	labels:So the last thing you'd want is for your daughter to start smoking.
text:I smoked when I was young, and I certainly don't want it for her.	labels:Hmm. And it sounds like your smoking, setting an example, those are some things that-that you're also, uh, a bit concerned about, um, but as you said earlier, not-not really ready to put down your cigarettes immediately.
text:Well, that's true. It seems so hard. I'm just not ready for this right now.	labels:So Sandra, what's good about smoking? What do you like about it?
text:It's very enjoyable, relaxing, you know, a stress reliever. When I'm at work, we all go out and smoke and chit chat and, you know, talk about things. I would hate to not smoke, really. I'd be left out.	labels:What else? Tell me what else is good about it.
text:Hmm, I like to have a cigarette after I eat. It sort of tells my brain I'm finished, stop eating, I'm full. So it's a- it's a way to-- you know, sometimes I'll have a cigarette instead of a snack, so it's a way to control my weight.	labels:Okay. So is there anything else that you like about it?
text:Let me think. Well, I just enjoy it. I think it's, uh-- it's not good for me, I know, but I'm so used to smoking. I don't really think about quitting too much.	labels:So let me make sure that I understand all of the good things about smoking, the things that you like about it, and let me know if I've missed anything or left anything out.
text:Okay.	labels:So it sounds like it's a way to relax. It's a way to socialize with your friends from work, and it's hard to imagine what it would be like for you at work if you couldn't go outside and smoke.
text:That's true. Yeah.	labels:You also mentioned that smoking is a way to manage your weight, and concern that if you were-were going to quit smoking, what that would do in terms of, um, gaining weight, and that smoking after meals is pleasurable, that it's something that would be really hard to give up.
text:Yeah.	labels:I also heard that it's very much a part of your life. It's something that you've done for a really long time and almost impossible to think about yourself as a non-smoker. Does that capture, for you, some of the good things or things that are keeping you smoking?
text:Exactly.	labels:So I'm hearing there are some things you really like about smoking. What about the other side? Can you tell me about some of the not-so-good things?
text:Well, I-I'm worried about my children. I feel like I'm being a bad parent, and um, I often wonder, you know, they've seen me smoke for years. I certainly don't want my 12-year-old daughter to start smoking, and some of her friends are already smoking.	labels:Sandra, can you give me an example of a time that you did something that you think left an impression on your daughter or set a bad example for her?
text:Yeah, just this morning, I was outside having a cigarette, and then when I looked up, there she was looking out the window watching me smoke.	labels:So this morning, that experience, it really brought home how she does watch you, and she does really look up to you and notice what you do. How did that feel when you looked up and saw her watching you?
text:I felt terrible, you know, I was projecting-- I wanna be a good parent, and I don't feel this really is part of the plan.	labels:And again, thanks for your honesty in talking about this. I appreciate that this is a- this is a tough topic. This is a-a hard behavior to think about giving up. Um, I guess one thing that- one thing that doesn't make sense to me is that, you know, on the one hand, you talk about how being a good parent is your highest priority, it's really important to you to set a good example for your daughter-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-um, and on the other hand, I'm hearing you say that smoking is important in terms of stress relief, socializing, and it's something you can't imagine ever changing. How do those two things fit together?
text:It doesn't fit, you know. It's the opposite side of the coin. You know, I love to do it, but I don't think it's right.	labels:So what would it take for quitting or changing your smoking to be something that was more important, that raised it up in the list of priorities for you?
text:I can't think of anything right now.	labels:Okay.
text:I don't have any plans to quit. It's just something I'm thinking about.	labels:So, it's-it's not so much that you don't wanna quit in a way, it's almost, "How could I do it that would work for me?"
text:Exactly.	labels:Okay. I appreciate. We've- we've probably used up the time that we have. I would love to see you next week if you'd be willing to schedule another appointment and talk with you more about this. Is that something that would be helpful?
text:Oh, sure. Sure, I'll come in. Yeah.	labels:Okay. So I hear-- [crosstalk]
text:We can talk about it some more.	labels:[chuckles] Not necessarily the-the most exciting thing for you to do, but I appreciate you are willing to do that. Can I also ask you to do a little bit of homework between now and next week? I promise it's not too time-consuming. Um, we have a booklet that we like to give folks who are just thinking about changing, who aren't sure that this is something that they're ready to do, and one of the exercises is to write down your top three reasons for change, why you would even consider quitting smoking. And then to reflect on some of the good things as we talked about, as well as some of the less good things about quitting and about continuing to smoke. Is that something you'd be willing to do over the next few days?
text:Okay, okay, I'll give it a try.	labels:Okay, here you go.
text:Thank you.	labels:So thanks for coming in, Sandra. We'll see you next week.
text:Uh, I guess that sound- that sounds right. I mean, I was- I was kinda drunk and it happened like a week ago. I just, I drove over to my friend's house, um, just to go watch the game and, you know, we're having a couple beers and next thing I know the Vikings are kind of losing pretty big. So we drank a little bit more than usual. And I mean, at the end I had to get home and I couldn't find a ride. So I-I just drove.	labels:You decided to drink more than you intended because you were disappointed at how the Vikings were playing. And when your roommate couldn't give you a ride home, you decided to drive yourself home. Did I get that right?
text:Yeah. That's-that's exactly how it happened. I mean, I'm a normal college kid. I like to drink and hanging out with my buddies. I mean, I, it wasn't a big house party or anything and I got busted.	labels:Yeah, I understand that your intention was to have a good time while watching the game with your friends. You didn't think about what could go wrong when you drank alcohol underage because you were at your friend's house and not a big party and you made an effort to be safe by finding a ride home.
text:Yeah. I tried to be safe. I mean, I tried to call her roommate, but I don't know, getting in trouble anyways.	labels:Dylan, you told me what brought you here today, what do you think the problem really is?
text:Um, well, I wanna say I have a drinking problem. I think I'd probably have more of a, like getting caught problem. I mean, my friends, they-they drink like fishes and I-- they don't ever get caught and you got me over here and I get caught and they left.	labels:Sounds like you attribute your current situation to bad luck. If that's what you believe and you don't attempt to make any change in your behavior, what consequences might result?
text:I guess- I guess more problems with police and school and I really don't have like the time or the money for any of that.	labels:How important is it that you avoid future problems with the police or school, Dylan?
text:God. It's, I guess, super important, because just-just going to detox alone was-was awful, the experience-- I don't want to do that again. And my dad said if I get suspended from school, um, I have to go- I have to go work on my uncle's farm in Iowa and that would just kill my social life. I won't see any of my friends and I mean, it's already bad enough, like my parents took my car away when I got the DUI.	labels:Yeah. What would you be willing to do to prevent going to detox again and getting suspended?
text:Well, I guess I- I guess the easy one is I wouldn't- I wouldn't drink so much and I try to avoid situations where I'm more-more likely to get in trouble. So probably I don't wanna drink so much.	labels:On a scale of 1 to 10, how confident are you that you'll be able to follow through with that plan with 10 being very confident?
text:Um, I guess I would say like, I don't know, like over halfway. So maybe like a six.	labels:What steps could you take to move that six to a seven or eight?
text:I could probably, um, I don't know. I-I guess, well, the big thing would be like kind of where I drink so like drinking like if I'm only like in my apartment so thenI'm not risking myself to drive or like if I- if I go out to a party waiting till, like, I'm 21 to drink. Um, maybe find stuff to do that doesn't revolve around drinking, like, I'm guessing like a town this size there's got to be more to do than just drink.	labels:In what ways might your life be better if you succeed in  making the changes you mentioned?
text:Um, I mean, I guess the big one would be like I won't- I won't be hungover all the time like I would make it to my 8:00 AMs then, well, even-even when I make it to my 8:00 AMs now like I just, I sleep like I wake up I'm like, "Oh my god what's going on?" And then I get to my 8:00 AM and I'll just sleep through and then miss just about everything that's on the test. So I think if I- if I reprioritize what is important to me, I probably help me succeed. I mean, in high school, I had a 3.5 GPA. So I know I could do it here.	labels:College is all about making choices. Can you tell me about your beliefs and values that influenced your decision-making and how do those beliefs and values align with the decisions you plan to make about drinking?
text:Um, I mean education is really important to me and-and also my family. My parents are always talking about it and I really- I really wanna be an international journalist, to be on the news like, I mean, I have the face for it, um. So I guess if I reprioritize my- if I reprioritize what I need to do I and I won't drink so much. I probably wouldn't be disappointing my parents and I'd be able to get a really good education.	labels:Thanks for coming in for participating today. Your sanction will involve being placed on university disciplinary probation and attending an alcohol education seminar that will cost $150.
text:Okay.	labels:Good. Here, take a look, see what you think. And that feeling-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and the color's okay? You know, there is quite a lot of staining so, um, I'm just wondering about, um, some concerns about smoking.
text:Oh.	labels:Possibly-
text:Gonna get that again.	labels:-coffee, tea. Yeah, you've heard this before, I'm sure.
text:I do all the above, yeah.	labels:Mm-hmm. So, you know, the smoking is going to be related not just to some of the other negative consequences. You know, physically, it affects dental caries, dental cavities-
text:Yeah.	labels:-um, healing-
text:Yeah.	labels:-in your mouth.
text:Okay. Sure.	labels:So--
text:I've heard it all. I-- but I just want to get my teeth fixed.	labels:Yes, and I really want to be helpful. I really want to-- you know, my commitment is to your oral health, so um, there are lots of medications out there, David, that actually take away a lot of the cravings. They're-- they make quitting so much easier.
text:I did a pill thing, so I did try it. So like, I did try try it. I just did the pills and they didn't work.	labels:Mm-hmm. Yeah.
text:It was a waste and it caused more side effects	labels:.No, it-- but David, it's not a waste. Research shows that people take on average about seven tries before they quit smoking, so think of it as you're one step closer to quitting, so--
text:Or seven lectures along the road.	labels:Well, I don't think I'm giving you a lecture, that's certainly not what I meant. I--
text:No. No, I just feel that way. I get really-- I get very defensive about when they bring-- cause I get it from my family doc, from my cardiologist, everybody. I'm like, I'm not a complete fool. I am for smoking, but—	labels:Well, there's-there's a reason that [crosstalk] people are concerned.
text:-but it's not easy to quit.	labels:No. But as I said, these medications-- so you've tried the medication, you've been willing once.
text:Yeah.	labels:Then, can I write you a prescription for the medication? Can we talk about how you could use it? Because this is something that-that's very important. Not just for your overall physical health, for your oral health--
text:I guess I got to really want to and-- things I've tried usually caused me more problems than they helped.	labels:Oh no, the smoking's going to cause you more problems than the-- than anything else. I can promise you that, David.
text:Okay.	labels:The side effects from the medications are nothing compared to what can happen from the smoking.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Like, that's the, I think, thing to really consider.
text:Okay. Well, can I go now?	labels:I'm-- okay, but you know--
text:I-I-I know it, I know- I know, doc, what you're trying to-- but I just don't want to get into that right now.	labels:Okay. Well thanks for listening, and honestly, I- I am really worried about the smoking, so--
text:Okay.	labels:I um--
text:I appreciate your care.	labels:I'm here to help, okay?
text:Okay.	labels:So--	episode:True
text:You're welcome.	labels:Yeah, I appreciate it. So, um, uh, your mom had given me a call and said that, um, um, there were some problems with kids kinda given you problems at school and being mean and things like that, and, uh, that's a hurtful thing.
text:Yeah. I stayed home two times already from school just 'cause of the bullying and everything.	labels:That's a- that's a lot of school to, yeah, and, you know--
text:And as I was out of school like more rumors started to happen as I was out of school. I come back and like these rumors are going around about me. Like one time when I stayed home, supposedly, I was in the principal's office the whole day and I had security guards like escort me to classes which that was not true 'cause I was home the whole time.	labels:People like to make up stories.
text:I've been getting blamed ever since like fifth or sixth grade about with every single thing that's going on.	labels:For, like why do you think, wh-what kinds of-
text:I think because the kids-- 'cause I like to nag on things. Like when people tell me things, I like to like talk more like with the person instead of just leaving it be, and I think the kids that like blame me for everything say that I'm an easy target to like hit, to like talk about, it's like annoying.	labels:So it's, uh, so when you were talking about like nagging on, tell me a little bit more about, can you give me an example of what you mean?
text:If somebody says like, "Oh, I heard this thing about you." I go, "Oh, really, what is it," and I just keep talking and like make things worse. Like, if somebody says that they wanna beat me up, I like go on, and say like, "Okay, then hit me," and like I just don't leave it be, like I just don't walk away. I like stay there and like talk more.	labels:And-and what happens when you don't leave it be, what usually happens?
text:I think possibly more like talking more like it gets like bigger and bigger. It's just like if you stop it, then they don't know what to say, they-they're like, "Oh, like she's walking away." And like that stops everything but like if I talk it-it keeps building up and we both get in trouble-	labels:Okay.
text:-and like called down to the principal's office.	labels:Okay.
text:-and get talked to.	labels:Okay, so and then what-what's it like for you after that, once you get spanked in the principal's office?
text:Well, usually I try telling myself to just like, leave it be-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-but if somebody says something about me, it gets me mad 'cause like what the heck, like you're talking about me so like I try to stop but sometimes I just say like a few words. Like I think now I'm trying to get like better.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Like there's this one incident that somebody was talking to me, I just said like, "Oh, wow, this is like really lame, like I'm just gonna leave," and I like let the conversation be.	labels:That's pretty cool that you did that.
text:Yeah. I felt proud of myself.	labels:You should be proud of yourself, and how did you do that?
text:I was just like thinking of like when I'm- whenever I like I'm saying like stuff back, mom gets really mad at me, she's like, "Well, I'm not gonna help you anymore." 'Cause, she tells me to like leave it be, but I really don't lis-listen to her so she gets mad. So I tried like thinking of like her feelings and like what would happen after if I say, "This is lame, leave me alone," 'cause then they'll like stop and I won't get like yelled at anymore.	labels:Uh, that says a lot about you and your mom's relationship though that you can kind of put yourself in her head and think about how she would feel about it.
text:Yeah.	labels:You know what I mean? It's pretty cool, not everybody can do that, so. So you could kind of put yourself ahead, uh, it's almost like watching a movie ahead-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and knowing how it's gonna turn out.
text:'Cause usually, if I get in trouble, mom gives me the silent treatment that I don't like. It's like she doesn't talk to me, I'm like trying to talk to her, she don't like wheezing being like, uh, I don't like it.	labels:That's the worst, the silent treatment.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, so, um, so but that worked for you, where you just let it go, you thought about your mom, you like what we would call like, you channeled to your mom, you know, and, uh, channeling mom, and then, um, you were able to walk away, and you were proud of yourself and nothing bad happened.
text:Yeah.	labels:Is that right?
text:Yeah.	labels:Does it--
text:Like they all like stopped talking to me, and the funny thing was that their eighth-graders that like didn't even go to my old school like I don't even know how they said of talking to me, I was like, creepy.	labels:Yeah, so- and so when you- when somebody else told you that they or people said you that you're an easy target, um.
text:Well, they don't really say that to me like I just like think that 'cause that's what I've like heard from my mom, and people talking to me 'cause I keep talking to them-	labels:Okay.
text:-so they keep coming back at me.	labels:Okay, so they-they kinda know how to hook you.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-and reel you in-
text:Yeah.	labels:-right, and get you upset. And then bad things happen and then you get in trouble.
text:Yeah. [chuckles] That happens a lot.	labels:Yeah. So, yeah. And it's, uh-- So, um-- so you-you know that when you're kind of channeling your mom, that helps. It sounds like you taught yourself almost. Like there's-
text:Yeah.	labels:-a conversation inside. What other ideas do you have about what you could do?
text:I was thinking of like, um, if I'm like at school like a peep things are happening during class-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-I just say, can I use the washroom or something to go like walk and like think of like how to like leave them be. And one time during my gym class, there's this girl that I had her like not talking early. And we're playing pickleball, I don't know if you know that, it's like a-	labels:I don't know what pickleball is.
text:-it's like a badminton, big life-size ping pong ball game.	labels:It looks like a pickleball?
text:Yeah, you have like a big bracket—	labels:There's no pickle?
text:No.	labels:Okay.
text:No, [chuckles] there's no pick.	labels:I wanted to pickle and stuff.
text:Mm-hmm. And like I was supposed to be like again turn. I told my-- I went to my gym teacher like silently and said I can't be by this person, can I move to the next court. So he like switched us around so I won't be by her. And that like happened.	labels:That's a really good decision.
text:The girls like what the heck like.	labels:Yeah. No, but how smart on your part to know that if you would- if you would had to play with her, something bad would've happened.
text:Yeah. Like I would like smacked her in the face or some- [laughs]	labels:You knew that.
text:-or something.	labels:Right? You knew that. So-
text:Yeah.	labels:So you know actually which kids-
text:Yeah, that's like—	labels:-know how to push your buttons that real you in.
text:Yeah, there's like four main ones but not that like I can say who.	labels:That's okay. That's-- Yeah, 'cause it's not important. The important thing is for you to be happy. And, uh--
text:And the friends that I have like I know are my true friends, They're like ones that don't really 'cause drama or like—	labels:Uh-huh.
text:I mean, they might but like they're not like bad and they actually like help me. Like some of these girls that like so-called friends like-	labels:Uh-huh.
text:-They're like they come to me saying like, "Oh, did you really have to like punch this girl." I'm like, "No." It's like you're not a friend if you'd actually believe that, you know what I mean?	labels:Yeah.
text:Yeah, it's kind of annoying, 'cause it's kind of hard like going into high school and like knowing how to believe and who not to believe.	labels:Yeah. That's-- that-- it's-it's really big unknown territory. Pressure High School class is probably 1,000 kids.
text:Yeah, 1,003.	labels:1,003 kids.
text:And then there's the sophomores also that you have like another 1,000, so it's like—	labels:2,000-
text:Yeah.	labels:-potential enemies, friends, who knows which ones.
text:Yeah, with these like the first rumors had started going around about like my friend and I, and like I lost him just 'cause of rumors. It's like, what the heck. Like I couldn't get over him for like gosh, who knows, it was like three months and I finally just had got over him.	labels:That must have been hard for you.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:I was like really, you're probably just jealous 'cause I was friends with him or something.	labels:Mm-hmm. So but finally after three months, time went by-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and you got--
text:I just found like other people and just like forgot about it.	labels:Okay. And so how else do you identify who your friends are that you can really trust who have your back?
text:I say the ones that like not even that I've known the longest, but like the ones that actually hang out with me a lot, or like texting me a lot, or like calling. And the ones that are actually like that helped you before with like situations. And that they tell you stuff and they know they can trust you. Like one of my friends tells me everything about her. And like that's how I know she's a good friend 'cause she trusts me with things.	labels:You trust her back then?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. Well, that makes a lot of sense that people-- it goes both ways.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:You know. And, um-- So and for you, friends that, um, kind of, um, give you the attention that you'd like to have. Texting you-
text:Yeah.	labels:-calling and you hanging out with you, and stuff like that, rather than pretending to be a friend-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-when you know maybe they're gonna--
text:Yeah, that happens a lot with me with like a lot of friends. Like this one person like we've been friends since like-- Well, we were friends since fourth grade.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And like she just starts like lying and like just talking smack about me. And it's like, you're not a good friend then. Like I thought you were a friend since you've been my friend since our fourth grade.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And she just like causes a lot of drama now. And like she came- Like the friends I met at high school, she came like into them like, you're not gonna know-- In college, you're not gonna know who to follow 'cause-- since you keep following with my friends, what are you gonna do in college like not being able to find your own friends? It's kind of annoying 'cause they're my friends and like I can't be by her and she comes to my friends. It's like-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-get your own friends, [chuckles] stop following me.	labels:Mm-hmm. Wh-what don't you like about her?
text:She just lies a lot and like just starts dramas about me and I haven't even talked to her like since eight grade. We only went to school together and she just like makes me lose other friends 'cause of the drama she starts	labels:Okay. So she sounds like she's, um--
text:A nobody. I'm gonna say that. She's like—	labels:Or-or not worth your time.
text:Yeah.	labels:She's not worth your time. So what would it be like for you to really just spend time with the friends that you know are really--
text:I do spend time with them. Like I hang out with them a lot.	labels:Good. That's really good. Yeah. And if-if you need like some extra support from them--
text:Ask for it. Yeah.	labels:Right, and what kind of things do you ask from them?
text:I just ask them like if I'm like gonna get like sent down to the principal's office for like something happening, I call them to come down to, like, support my, like, backup information.	labels:'Cause they can do that. They can- they can kinda give you some, uh, information like, uh, um-- they can give some accurate information, um, and back up your story versus the other person's story.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, okay. So we're-- You know what? Um, it sounds like you actually have some pretty good ideas about, um, how to handle this, and yet kids are-- I know kids-- actually, adults can be really mean too. But, um, I know in high school, i-it's really bad.
text:Yeah.	labels:So I'm wondering if, um, uh, if-if you wanted to, we could get together again and continue to talk 'cause you-you've got some good ideas already. And I'm very open that if you wanted to bring any of your good friends in, that that would also be totally cool too.
text:Yeah.	labels:So would that be something--
text:Yeah, there's one friend that might wanna like talk about it.	labels:Yeah.
text:And she's really like-- she doesn't know, like, who to talk 'cause her mom is not always there for her.	labels:Okay.
text:And so like she's like doesn't know where to go.	labels:Yeah.
text:Like she doesn't know who to believe.	labels:Well, I would want this session though to be for you though, Molly.
text:Yeah.	labels:I mean I'm willing to see her too, you know.
text:Yeah.	labels:It sounds like she really needs-- she'd like someone to listen to her.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. So, um, we could maybe talk about some other ways of, um, helping, uh, deal with this because, um, it does sound like, um, people are, you know, just being plain old mean to you for no good darn reason.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Yeah. And, um, so you'd be willing to come back and talk about it then? Okay. All right. And I just wanna let you know that I think that you're, um, really doing a good job of-of, uh, dealing with how hard it is to be in high school, 'cause it is hard.
text:Yeah.	labels:It is.
text:I've noticed that.	labels:Yeah. And it is hard, and-and I-I think it gets better. My experience was it got a little better. The freshman and sophomore year, you know.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:But, um, anyway, I think you are hanging in there beautifully, and I love hearing that you're involved in swimming and some other things 'cause they must help connect you up with some pretty-- I would hope-
text:Yeah.	labels:-[unintelligible 00:13:12] people. So okay, anything else? No? Okay. All right.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Thank you.	episode:True
text:Uh, just I'm sick of my drinking. I'm drinking too much. Um, I just thought, uh, maybe I need someone to talk to, get some help about it.	labels:Okay, so you feel as if drinking is a problem for you at the moment?
text:Yeah, it's just- it's just got worse over the last six months?	labels:Okay. Wh-What makes you say that it's gotten worse?
text:Well, I guess, I drank, you know, like most people do before, um, but I broke up with my boyfriend, uh, about a year ago and then six months ago I guess I wanted to go out again and see if I can meet people.	labels:Okay.
text:And I've been, yeah, getting into this habit of going out every Friday and Saturday, now, uh, drinking a lot.	labels:Yes.
text:Um, to try to meet guys.	labels:Sure.
text:And, uh, in the last few months I've been, you know, just drinking even more on week nights, and I never even used to do that before.	labels:Okay, okay, so you've noticed over, I guess, uh, the last six months in particular since you decided, you know what? I'm going to take a risk and-a-and go out to try to meet a-a-a pot-potential partner again that it's with an increase in drinking.
text:Yeah. Well, I just, I don't feel comfortable talking to guys normally. [chuckles]	labels:Okay.
text:I don't know what to say, um, and I just, drinking helps.	labels:Sure, sure. So you're noticing that the drinking at the moment is a way of perhaps calming the nerves?
text:Yeah, for sure.	labels:To-to-to speak to-to potential partners?
text:Yeah, definitely.	labels:Who-who-who, boys?
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay.
text:I mean, I guess, like most people do when they go out they drink.	labels:Okay.
text:I've been doing that and just drinking more and more I guess.	labels:Sure.
text:Um, and it's just-- it's not even working, I'm not really meeting people and I just end up with massive hangover for the rest of the weekend and—	labels:That's interesting isn't it? You-- 'cause you kind of mentioned it there, like, you know, on one side of the coin, um, it helps calm the nerves to get yourself get out there and-
text:Yeah.	labels:-talk to guys at the same time, on the other side it's not working you're finding. And i-i-it results in hangovers or?
text:Yeah, I mean, I've maybe talked to people but it's just, uh, that I've just I think I'm just too-too drunk and I just, my friends drive me home and just the end of the night I don't-- yeah.	labels:Okay, and so I guess, you know, what would you like to do given the circumstances?
text:I guess I just wanna stop. I just feel like I'm drinking more and more 'cause I'm doing it now in the weekdays-	labels:Yeah.
text:-and I mean, I just don't-- I don't wanna do that every now and now I just think it's a bit too much.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah, I'm just I'm not eating properly anymore, I'm just eating less or just getting takeaway, getting crap food and-	labels:Okay.
text:-um, I'm just, I feel like I'm not exerc-- well I'm not exercising like I used to. So, I just wanna cut, you know, stop drinking so much.	labels:Okay, okay, so, uh, sounds like you really want to stop drinking, particularly during the weekdays?
text:Yeah. Yeah I do. Yeah.	labels:Right, because you're noticing it's having a negative impact on what you're eating.
text:Yeah. I don't wanna- I don't wanna, I mean, I don't wanna stop altogether, so.	labels:No, I get it. Yeah. I mean, you know, it sounds like it's, it is helpful to a degree for you when you go out because it makes you feel a little bit more calm to talk to-to guys is that right?
text:Yeah and just and all my friends go out and drink. Like I-	labels:Yeah.
text:-I'd have no social life if I didn't.	labels:Yeah.
text:If I just said-said, "No, I'm not drinking at all," and, you know, I don't feel like I'm an alcoholic-	labels:Sure.
text:-or I don't feel like I need to	labels:Yeah, yeah. So, you've got, you know, some benefits there then, you know. The social element, hanging with friends and-and going out together is something which is-is quite enjoyable. So, it's not a case of removing it completely but it’s a case of, "Okay, I’m noticing this is impacting on me more than what I’d like to." Yeah. Yeah, okay.
text:Yeah, it just got a bit out of control.	labels:Has there been times in the past where you’ve tried to cut back on drinking?
text:No, this hasn’t happened before.	labels:Oh, this is the first time anything like this has come up?
text:Um, due to just circumstance of, I mean, I just yeah, had my boyfriend for six years before that and-	labels:Yes, yes.
text:Um, before that yeah just my friends weren't drinking so much, and yeah it’s just not, it's just new. Yeah.	labels:Okay, yeah. Well, it’s great that you’re able to identify, you know, what’s going on at the moment and you've-- not only know that, you almost picked up on a bit of a pattern too you're in-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-as to why you’re-you're drinking. In terms of looking at cutting back on-on drinking, you know, on a scale of 0 to 100 and 100, uh, meaning it’s tremendously important for you and 0 not important at all. How important is it for you to cut back on the drinking?
text:I believe 80, I mean I guess that’s why I’m here so—	labels:Okay, yeah yeah sure, you're already taking a huge step forward in many ways by coming along to-to start talking about it.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, I guess 80 is quite high, what makes you say an 80 over say 50?
text:Um, I don’t know, I just-just I don’t know, it just sort-- it just got up to a point where just, um, it seemed just too much, like no-nobody else is really drinking as much in the week as well and-	labels:Okay.
text:-it seemed, as just, yeah, for the reasons I was saying, just seeing like I need to do something about it now.	labels:Okay, yes, so you’ve got this real sense of, "I've gotta do something."
text:Just seeing it’s just gonna get worse, uh, wha-- that’s what it seems like.	labels:That’s what it seems like.
text:Yeah.	labels:So, at the moment, it's been a case of the last six months, this is a pattern that you’ve been noticing more and more, um, a sign that it has had negative impacts on your lifestyle which you’re not happy with and you are in you're in a position where, you know what? I wanna do something about it.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay, I mean what do you think that next step is?
text:Um, I guess that’s why I’m here. [chuckles]	labels:Yeah.
text:Just to, uh, but um-- I is-is-- I think the weekdays is what I really need to do.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, and then, I don’t know, try to plan it out a little bit more on the weekends-	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah, yeah. Yep.	labels:Okay, how does that sound like a first step goal for you?
text:No, that’s good, that’s-that's, yeah, that's- that is definitely what I’m gonna do.	labels:Okay.
text:I just, you know, I'm so out of the routine, not exercising, I need to get back into things.	labels:Okay, you sound really mad about it to-to turn it around.
text:Yeah, but I mean, I guess, just talking about it makes me think oh yeah, I need to- I need to do something about it.	labels:Okay, oh, that-that's excellent, okay.	episode:True
text:Well, I've got myself all worked up now I've been sat outside.	labels:Okay.
text:I'm not-- I'm now late. I'm sorry. Um, I've come to see you because I've got a really sore throat. It's been like this for a good few days, um, and I think I need some more antibiotics.	labels:All right. Um, okay. Um, well let's, uh, let's just have a look shall we? See what's going on. You just wanna open your mouth for me. Say ah.
text:Ah.	labels:Okay. Right. Uh, to be honest, you know, looking there, it just looks like one of those viruses that are going around at the moment that are causing these sore throats. So, uh, I think that we should just perhaps go for a bit of paracetamol and, uh, some fluids and let nature sort it out.
text:I've been sat here for half an hour. Do you not want to know a little bit more about it, or? I mean, it- it's really painful. I- I've barely been able to swallow today and I'm so worried about passing things on to the kids. Um—	labels:Well, I mean, I'm sorry we're a bit late, but you know that's the general practice, isn't it? You know, sometimes these things happen. Um, but it doesn't alter the fact that you do just have a virus, uh, and they are very common. And the nice thing is that it will get better with paracetamol and fluids, and the paracetamol will help the pain. Um, with giving it to the kids, I'm afraid there's nothing we can do about that. It's unlikely they'll get it, but I can't guarantee it.
text:[sighs] Well, I mean, this is gonna affect my job. I talk on the phone quite a lot at work, and I'm just-- I don't think at the moment I'm going to be able to go to work. Can- can I, at least, get a sick note?	labels:Uh, well- well, not really. Uh, you need to self-certify in your first seven days off sick so if you're going to take some time off, just take some paracetamol, lots of fluids, get a self-certified note, uh, in to your employer, and put sore throat there.
text:Well, I don't think my employer are gonna take that. I mean, they- they've given us so much hassle at things in the past. I mean, can- can I get a private note? Can- can I ask you to write me a letter, at least?	labels:Uh, well, obviously that's a non-NHS thing so we have to charge you for that and our going rate for that is, uh, £12.
text:Just- it's just not good enough. I just-- [sighs]	labels:Oh, I'm sorry. But, you know, if you have just got a sore throat, then there's not much I can do about that. It's just, you know, something that we all get from time to time. Perhaps, what you really need to do is, uh, you know, just take some paracetamol and get some fluids.
text:Parace- paracetamol. Do you understand how difficult this is gonna be for me? I mean, I could lose my job or something.	labels:Okay, that's pretty unlikely with sore throat. I think that's so, you know, a little bit of grand staging there.
text:I'm sorry, uh, I think I'm gonna say something that I don't- I don't want to, so I'm actually going to go.	labels:Okay.
text:Thank you.	labels:Bye.	episode:True
text:Well, I, um, I did get an interview for a job. Um—	labels:Wow, that's so great.
text:Yeah, but I wasn't able to go, um, cause my kids, I didn't have any one to watch them. And, um, you know, so the- that was sort of game over. I just, I had to cancel the interview and this, it's too bad because it was a really, a- actually was a job that would have been good, but I don't know.	labels:You sound disappointed.
text:Well, yeah, because it's- it's, you know, I didn't really have a choice. I guess I have to be- I have to make sure my kids are taken care of first. And, um, you know, I'm worried that this is gonna keep happening.	labels:It's gonna keep happening that you have to turn down opportunities.
text:Yeah.	labels:Mm-hmm, okay. Well, tell me, um, on a scale from one to 10, how important is it for you to get a job?
text:Um, it sits about at a 10 because yeah, I mean, I'm the only one supporting my kids and, um, you know, it's just, what I'm getting from welfare is just not cutting it. So I really need to have a job and soon.	labels:Yeah. You're-you're-you're it.
text:Yeah.	labels:You have to provide for your children.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Um, and tell me on a scale from one to 10, how confident are you that you could get a job?
text:I mean, right now, I think I'm about at a three. I just seems like, you know, even if I'm able to get into the interview and get childcare, you know, when I show up, I've got this resume that it's- it's not impressive and it's got all these gaps of employment and I'm not as educated as other people going in for the same job. So I just feel like I'm not, um, I don't know, that employable.	labels:So, it sounds like, you know, the childcare issue has been getting in the way, and so finding something that would work for you would be really helpful.
text:Yeah.	labels:And then also it sounds like you're kinda feeling not so great about your resume and your experience.
text:Yeah. Yeah, because it's so limited and I've been out of the workforce and even when I was working, I mean, it's not, I don't know, it's not stuff that I feel like can lead to the job that I want now.	labels:Okay. What is it that you- what is it that you want?
text:I just want something that is- is gonna be steady and where I can be, you know, even if my kids are in childcare during the day, that I can be home every night and spending time with them and, um, know you really like to get something where, um, I'm just making good money and- and I don't have to worry all the time about money.	labels:Yeah. Yeah. So, if you had- if you had consistent work, it would change your life in a lot of ways.
text:Yeah. It would be huge.	labels:Mm-hmm. It would provide the income that you need and you wouldn't worry so much.
text:Yeah. And it'd be nice to just know what I'm doing and just have my routine.	labels:Right. So every day you know where you're going.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. And you know, what's- what's happening for the- for the day, for the week.
text:Right. Well, it would be good if I knew, you know, that my kids are taken care of too-	labels:Yeah.
text:- so I'm not worried about them while I'm at work.	labels:Right. Yeah. Because you're- you're the kind of parent that wants to make sure your kids are doing well.
text:Right.	labels:Yeah. Um, so tell me, what would it take to get you to like a five in confidence, to feel a little bit more confident about getting work?
text:Well, I mean, being able to make the interviews would be the priority.	labels:Okay, Yeah.
text:Um, so chi- you know, taking care, having some childcare, having-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:- having someone I trust that I can call when I know I've got an interview.	labels:Yeah. Because you definitely need to go to an interview in order to get the job.
text:Right. Yeah.	labels:So having taken care of that part, having some reliable childcare would definitely help.
text:Yeah.	labels:What else would get you to a five?
text:Um, I just wish that I had- I had more experience or, um, you know, more education. It seems like everyone's got a college education and I don't have that on my resume.	labels:Okay.
text:I get asked about education and training and –	labels:Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
text:- um, you know, I just, it, as soon as I asked about it, I just feel just like I'm not good enough-	labels:Okay.
text:- since I don't have that.	labels:Yeah, so if you had something on your resume that was around education training, maybe a certificate of some kind of a field that you're interested in, that you would feel proud of yourself.
text:Yeah. Well, something I could talk about in the interview too. You know, even if I was some type of certification where I could say, I could, you know, with confidence talk about- about that.	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay. What-- do you have any ideas as to what fields you might be interested in getting some more education, more training?
text:I mean, I guess, I just don't really know what it's gonna be because I need to have a job now so I'm not really sure.	labels:Like what's going to be fastest.
text:Right. I almost feel like that's more important than what I'm interested in, you know, because I'm like, I'm not going to go back to school for four years right now.	labels:Okay, and so if- if you were, it sounds like if you were going to do something you'd wanna to do something really quickly like a short- a short certificate.
text:Yeah or something-- yeah, something that I could get immediate skills that would, you know, get me into some kind of a job now, even if it's not my long-term goal or, you know, career just- just get me into something and then I can always focus on.	labels:Yeah, sort of like a short-term or transition into something else.
text:Yeah. Great. Exactly.	labels:But that would be steady and pays well?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Okay, and allow you to afford everything you need to afford.
text:Yeah, because even those jobs right now don't feel accessible for me. They seem like, you know-- seems like if-- maybe if I were better on the computer or you know.	labels:Okay, so specifically getting some computer skills will help?
text:Yeah. I think so- I think so because I don't-- I can't-- I don't really have anything on my resume that talks about—	labels:The technology.
text:Yeah.	labels:Mm-hmm. Okay. So whatever and so far it sounds like getting a job is really important right now and you really need the money and you really need to take care of your children and it sounds like you have some ideas as to how you could get to these interviews for one, and then once you're there at the interview, feeling more confident about your skills, um, getting some child-- reliable child care certainly sounds very important.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, as well as maybe doing some sort of certificate or getting some classes and training in computers?
text:Yeah, that would be great.	labels:Okay.
text:That would be great.	labels:So what would you like to do next, you think?
text:Well, find the childcare resources-	labels:Okay, okay.
text:- is- seems to be- that seems to be the—	labels:That's a priority.
text:The priority 'cause I can't even do an interview without that.	labels:Yeah.
text:And then, um, I mean-- I guess getting into some type of- some type of a training program that's, you know, short-	labels:Yeah.
text:Oh, thanks so much doctor. I'll just take it easy for a couple of days.	labels:Well, since I have you here and we still have a few minutes left, I'd like to bring up another topic. I noticed that your blood pressure and your weight have been climbing a bit over the past few years. We haven't really had time to talk about this much before and I may be able to offer some useful strategies. Would it be okay if we discussed weight and health for a few minutes?
text:Yeah, I suppose. I know my weight is a problem, but every time I try to take it off, I end up gaining it back. I don't know what to do.	labels:I know how you feel. Managing weight can be frustrating. Maybe we can just start trying to figure it out together and I'll be here to help you through the challenges.
text:Okay, thank you doctor, but I'm just concerned about how I can possibly lose weight now since work is so busy and the kids take up so much of my time.	labels:Yeah, that's certainly understandable. We both know that there's a lot that plays into weight management, but there's no need to figure it all out today, especially since things are so busy for you right now. Maybe we could put our heads together and think about something small that fits reasonably into your life and then we can take further steps when you're ready.
text:Okay, that sounds great. So, what should I do?	labels:Well, let's see. One of the things that's involved in managing weight and health is being active. Physical activity benefits the whole body. It's healthy for our joints, our stress levels, and especially for weight management. Perhaps we could talk about some ways of adding activity that fit into your life.
text:I knew you were gonna say that, but I don't have time in my schedule. I can't afford to take an hour to go to the gym every day.	labels:Well, I understand that. I don't have an hour to go to the gym every day either, but one of the great things about physical activity is that any amount in any type of activity can be very helpful. For example, let's think about some activities that you enjoy doing.
text:I like to walk.	labels:Me too. Walking is great exercise.
text:Wait a minute, isn't walking too mild to help you lose weight, though?	labels:Actually, even just a few minutes of walking is really healthy and worthwhile, and then when you have time to do even more, that's great. Walking is also great because you can do it anywhere, it doesn't need to be at the gym.
text:Oh, wow, that sounds good. You know what? Come to think of it, I have some time before I have to go back to work and I saw a nice park on the way over here, maybe I can take a short walk after this appointment.	labels:That sounds great.
text:And you know what? I used to really love to dance, but I haven't done that in such a long time.	labels:Well, dancing is a great exercise, especially because it's fun.
text:Hmm. And I know my family would support me if I could just find some place where I can go dancing.	labels:Oh, that's great to hear that your family is so supportive. And I bet there's a dance class somewhere around where you live or maybe even a dance fitness class at the gym.
text:Yeah, and you know what? I really like to try that.	labels:Would you like to do some research on this and give it a shot?
text:Actually, I really would. I'm kind of excited about it. What else you got?	labels:Well, small steps can go a long way. So, even things like taking the stairs instead of the elevator every once in a while or parking just a bit further from the door when you go to a store can be ways to increase movement in your day.
text:Mm-hmm. I can do that.	labels:How about we start there and let's plan to follow up in a few weeks so we can see how it's going and then maybe talk about some other strategies that might help.
text:Diet, the D word.	labels:Not necessarily. What we eat is certainly important for weight and health, but just like we did today, we can talk about some small steps that can fit into your life, and especially ones that you feel good about.
text:Yeah, I like that. Okay, I'll make an appointment and I'll start dancing right away, doc.	labels:That's great. I'll see you soon	episode:True
text:Thank you.	labels:I'd say my name is Mark and I work here at Green Prescriptions. And-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:I know a little bit about you from the referral letter from the doctor.
text:From my GP?	labels:From your GP, yeah.
text:Uh.	labels:But before we get to anything, I'll probably want to just ask you a little bit about what's led you to come here today and get a bit of an idea about what's been going on for you.
text:What's led me to come here?	labels:Mm.
text:My GP.	labels:And what did he have to say?
text:Well, um, you know, I had my sort of, uh, checkup.	labels:mm.
text:And it revealed that apparently, I might have diabetes 2. Well, that's what he says.	labels:Right.
text:Um, I-I think that I feel perfectly well. I-I'm, you know-- I understand people with diabetes are a little bit plumper than I am.	labels:Mm.
text:But, um, that's really why I'm here. I'm on his command, almost.	labels:Right, so he kinda gave you a directive?
text:Well, he did. He says he's going to put me on some sort of program if it gets worse.	labels:Mm.
text:But as I say, I-I feel absolutely fine now.	labels:So it kind of came a bit of a surprise, you feeling okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:You go for this checkup with the doctor. And he says, "You've got Type II diabetes."
text:Mm, I'm very surprised.	labels:Mm. Came out of the blue for you?
text:Yes. I think it did.	labels:Mm.
text:Mm.	labels:And you said you kind of don't fit that kinda Type II diabetes look. That you kinda have had this idea-
text:I-	labels:-you've been-been overweight with it.
text:That's what I understand.	labels:Mm.
text:You know, and I'm not overweight.	labels:Mm.
text:I-I sort of look after myself to a limited extent in that way. Um, but I'm a busy person, I suppose I burn off the calories. And-	labels:Mm.
text:I don't know, really.	labels:Mm.
text:My lifestyle—	labels:Hmm. So it doesn't quite fit in your head, Type II diabetes and-
text:No.	labels:-your lifestyle?
text:No, not at all.	labels:Comes as a big surprise. And what was your reaction when he told you that at the time?
text:Well, I-I thought he must be joking. To be honest. I thought-	labels:Mm.
text:-you know, why you are-- Look around you.	labels:Mm, mm.
text:um, I just felt that, um-- I mean, I don't think he was wasting my time because why would he do that?	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:Right?	labels:He's got a lot to do.
text:Um-- Absolutely right.	labels:Mm.
text:He's got a job to do. And obviously, the tests have come through. And I have got these signs of diabetes 2.	labels:Right.
text:Right? Um, I just think that-- Well, I just don't feel like it, Mark.	labels:Mm.
text:Um—	labels:So how are you feel in your head-
text:I feel absolutely fine.	labels:-and what the tests say kind of like don't join up.
text:Yeah. Well, physically, I feel absolutely fine.	labels:Mm.
text:I'm-I'm-- I didn't see anything wrong with me at all.	labels:Hmm.
text:I mean, I get around, I sleep pretty well-	labels:Hmm-hmm.
text:I sort of you know-	labels:Hmm.
text:- I'm-I'm compos mentis. So I don't—	labels:Yeah. What's the problem? Mm.
text:What is the problem?	labels:And how did this happen is probably kind of what you're also thinking. Well, how did this--?
text:Well, uh, yes. I mean-	labels:Mm.
text:-I must admit, I haven't done too much research. I've been a bit busy.	labels:Okay.
text:Um, but he-he was saying something about, I don't know, family or whatever. I don't know.	labels:Yeah.
text:And I don't know if it's hereditary.	labels:Mm.
text:I think he said something about it being hereditary.	labels:So he mentioned, it might be a family thing. And so you-
text:Yeah.	labels:-maybe got from your parents or something of the sort.
text:Yeah, it could be-	labels:Mm.
text:-because, um, my mother mentioned-	labels:Mm.
text:-that, uh, my father had diabetes-	labels:Right.
text:-diabetes 2. And if I think about it, um, his brother-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-uh, I haven't seen him for years.	labels:Yeah.
text:But he might well have it because he is-	labels:Mm.
text:-a pretty cuddly guy. You know-	labels:Right.
text:He's pretty big.	labels:So he fits the picture-
text:Well, yes, the stereotype,-	labels:-when you think about what he-he-- Yeah, he's stereotypical.
text:Yeah, I guess.	labels:A little bit bigger, perhaps doesn't look after himself that well, and he fits that foot
text:Well, yeah. I mean, as far as I know, I hadn't seen him for-	labels:Yeah.
text:-I don't know how many years.	labels:Mm. So you got this knowledge as a witness there's some family history of diabetes in the past?
text:Apparently so. Yes, apparently so.	labels:Doctor mentioned that as being a factor.
text:Mm, I mean, it is hereditary, is it?	labels:That's certainly true. Yes. We know that people who've had parents or have been in the past, there is a hereditary factor or genetic factor in-involved.
text:A genetic factor. And so, does that mean that if you've got, um, if you've got a history of this within your family-	labels:Mm.
text:-if it's a gene-- you are more likely than not to get it?	labels:Correct. Yeah.
text:Also, it's—	labels:But it's not inevitable.
text:Right. Okay.	labels:Because its genes or the-the-the-the hereditary factor is not the only factor that causes it or is involved in it happening to you. So there's other factors that come into play.
text:I'm sure you're going to tell me what they are.	labels:Well, you've-you've mentioned some of the things you know, and one of those is hereditary factors. You mentioned that the doctor mentioned that. And what else do you know or have you heard? You say you haven't had a lot of time to do the research. What else? Other things you've.
text:To be frank, Mark, I honestly don't know. I mean, I honestly don't know what causes it because I've never had any reason. It came upon me from the GP and it took me back.	labels:Yeah.
text:Um, the hereditary thing I thought, well, maybe that's the explanation.	labels:That makes a bit of sense.
text:And why go any further, it's there?	labels:Yeah.
text:Can't help it.	labels:Yeah.
text:They live pretty long lives, they did, all right.	labels:They managed with it.
text:Relatives relatively went into their 70s.	labels:Okay. I don't know if it'd be helpful for you if you'd like to know a little bit more about some of the factors involved in time Type II diabetes.
text:Well.	labels:If that would help.
text:If there's something that you think that-- Yes. Yes, of course.	labels:Well, I'll perhaps share with you what I know from working with other people and some of the things I've experienced in working with people.
text:Okay.	labels:And see what you make of it. See if it fits a little bit more with where you're at. We know that there is a strong family factor or hereditary factor, so that's one aspect. So also it tends to happen a little bit later in life, rather than something you might get when you're a teenager, this type of diabetes. So-so it's a later onset. It takes a bit of time for it to develop maybe. And the main reason I think, um, the main aspect of it is that it, have you heard about insulin.
text:I've heard of it yeah.	labels:So that's a hormone or a chemical, it allows you to utilize sugar in your body.
text:Right.	labels:All right. And Type II diabetes typically people have a resistance or a resistance to insulin in their cells, in their fat cells or their muscle cells or liver cells. They can't use insulin. And so sugar builds up in your system.
text:Are you saying that they-they like they can't digest insulin or is that?	labels:You need insulin in your cells, individual cells in muscle or in fat or wherever to, um, use up excess sugar or to utilize sugar.
text:Oh, I see. So-so it's like a-it's like a balance.	labels:That's right.
text:So insulin you-you.	labels:Kind of, as your.
text:You have yourself draws bar.	labels:Yap.
text:Or something, and then what balances that out in the body is the insulin taking off the excess.	labels:Yeah.
text:Or-or digesting? Should I say the excessive sugars?	labels:That's a good way to think.
text:Is that what happened?	labels:Exactly. And what's happening in Type II diabetes is your-your fat cells and liver cells and muscle cells are resistant to insulin. It's almost like they're saying we can't use that.
text:Why?	labels:And if-- Well, there's a number of-- We're not entirely sure, there's a lot of research still going on as to how this happens and how that could be modified. But what we do know is that, um, one of the key things in managing it is to try and modify or modulate, control the amount of sugar that are in your system.
text:Right. Okay.	labels:Yeah. So there's a couple of things that we know that people with Type II diabetes have to look after and have to think about if they want to control the amount of sugar that's in their system, which is the main issue that's causing some of the health problems that people have with Type II diabetes. Too much sugar, and if it's not able to be utilized in the blood cell, in the fat cells, or liver cells, and the muscle cells stays in your bloodstream. And that can cause problems with your circulation. So too high blood sugar and too low a blood sugar can be a problem. So sugar is the main concern in Type II- Type II diabetes.And you mentioned earlier on, a couple of things that the doctor-- You've mentioned some signs that he was kind of a little bit concerned about. Well, what things did you notice over the-over the last month or so?
text:You mean, personally?	labels:Yeah.
text:Well, I didn't know. I mean, the thing is you see that-- I mean, I did think about this a little bit and I thought, well, over time, if things happen slowly, you don't really notice.	labels:Yeah.
text:As you get older.	labels:Yeah.
text:I mean, I don't-I don't leap over five bar gates like I used to, you know, um, as opposed to, uh, running with the backs now, I tend to spend more time, you know, with my old mates in the bar.	labels:Yeah.
text:At the rugby club and-and-and the such like, yeah. And, um, the fish I'm hooking, I'm not after the kings anymore, I go for the snapper now, it's a bit easier, you know.	labels:A slightly more sedate lifestyle.
text:Yeah, absolutely. You just do.	labels:Yeah.
text:You just do. Um, so you're less demanding, I guess, on your-on your body, you realize, and you don't really want to do these things anyway. You know, you let the youngsters get home.	labels:Yeah.
text:Been there, done that. So you don't really notice. So I'm coming back to this diagnosis I had from my GP and him saying, "You've got diabetes 2," well, I should feel like that, shouldn't I?	labels:Yeah. It should feel like there's something really wrong with you.
text:Yeah, I mean.	labels:What's-how have you been feeling over the last month? So, you say you're very busy you're doing a lot of work.
text:Yeah, I mean I'm a busy person. All right? I uh, my work uh, I work in insurance, so I'm always hopping from one place to another place.	labels:Yeah.
text:Um, I haven't noticed.	labels:Mh-hmm.
text:I really haven't noticed how, um, okay I get a bit--I suppose I get a bit out of breath sometimes.	labels:Okay.
text:If I rush too much that-that's true. Um, I suppose, um, I don't go upstairs two at a time anymore, I use one at a time.	labels:So a little bit sort of energy is not quite there sometimes? The vitality.
text:Oh, certainly the energy I have is-is not what I-what I had. I mean I do need to, you know, I'm busy but I do need to sit down, um, uh, I do need to sit down and relax with a cup of coffee, you know, and, uh, things.	labels:Yeah, Mh-hmm.
text:Um, more than I would normally.	labels:Yeah.
text:But that would be, that would be about it.	labels:Mh-hmm.
text:Um, is it getting worse? I don't know. I-I-I suppose. What worse? Is it-is it increasing? Well, to say, I don't really notice it.	labels:You haven't noticed it. So it's a progressive, you know, you've just seen this, as-as you got older, things have slowed down. You know those activities you used to do, but that's kind of like what happens.
text:Yeah, yeah. Um, at least, that's what I think. I mean I don't know if you're telling me that I should be more active or my GP is saying I should be more active.	labels:Mh-hmm.
text:Um, as I say, uh, you know I-I don't do any regular form of exercise, I have to say, not anymore.	labels:Yeah.
text:Um.	labels:Okay.
text:But maybe I-maybe I don't know.	labels:Hmm, a bit of a mystery there.
text:I mean I've got uh, well I-I mean I've got a great lifestyle. I mean if it's very-it-it's very good. I mean I've got all my mates in down at the rugby club. And I've got uh, you know even in the summer when that's a bit damn. I used to coach rugby and I coached cricket when I finished playing. So-so I've got the-the guys in the cricket club, um, you know, for the-for the, uh, for the summer evenings. And, uh, and then, uh, the-then, of course, we've got the fishing, and that's all of us combined. We're a big gang, really.	labels:Really? So what I'm hearing is there's actually a lot of aspects in your life which are really good.
text:Oh, I think my life yeah. My life is great.	labels:From your perspective, things are going well?
text:My life is great, and then you turn around and say, "Hey you've got-- you-you're ill, you're sick.	labels:Yeah. It doesn't fit.
text:And um, no I'm not. But you see, he said to me that he's gonna put me on some sort of, uh, a daily monitoring of, is it sugar levels?	labels:Mh-hmm.
text:And I'm gonna have to take regular pills.	labels:Right.
text:Well frankly, the only pills I take are sort of paracetamols.	labels:Yeah. When you get uh, a headache.
text:For a bit of the head in the morning, you know.	labels:Yeah.
text:Um.	labels:So the idea of having to test-test your blood sugar and take medications is kinda like off--
text:Come on, you know.	labels:And you know that's a bit too-
text:Well, life is too short.	labels:Too much.
text:You know it's the truth.	labels:Yeah. Okay.
text:I mean you know—	labels:And you're here today and that's probably something in you you've thought well I'll follow this through, you know I'll-I'll come along and see what-see what they've got to say. And I'm just wondering for this session, for the time we have today, there's a number of things we could talk about. You mentioned a couple of things about your lifestyle and, um, medication is one thing you've been told by the doctor you might need to do that. And a number of things that we could talk about today. Which-which area would you think would be useful for you to focus on?
text:Well there is-there is something that you sort of prompted me to think about, and, um, I split up-- My wife and I, we split up several years ago now. And, um, you know we've been married for many many years.	labels:Hmm.
text:And um, I think she used to look after me because she used to do the cooking and-and-and stuff like that.	labels:Okay.
text:And I have to say that I'm not the best cook in the world.	labels:Mh-hmm.
text:Um, and-and being on the run all the time and you know once I get back home, it's, you know, it's time to go down to the rugby club or whatever it might be, uh, we're out with the mates. And, uh, I-I do I suppose my food is not as healthy perhaps as it used to be when she was around. She's moved down to Hamilton to live with her mother, if you've met her mother. Anyway, but, um.	labels:So then, since you've been on your own since you've separated, divorced and you've noticed that the things you eat and how you eat has changed.
text:Yeah, I mean mates and their wives are pretty cool about it sometimes.	labels:Hmm.
text:Because, you know, they'll invite me for dinner and so on.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:And, yeah, yeah, yeah. I guess, you know, that's when you, well, or whatever reason, you split up in life.	labels:Hmm.
text:You start looking at the home life of somebody else, you're thinking, "Hmm, I use d to have this."	labels:Hmm. Yeah, yeah.
text:And you think, " This is nice food, " isn't it? and you know.	labels:Yeah. And your-- part of your wife used to do a lot of that for you?
text:Oh, she would do all the cooking. Yeah, yeah,	labels:Yeah.
text:I mean, I never bothered to boil an egg in the water, you know.	labels:And so she would kinda look after what you ate and healthy things that you had, spread in front of you and off you go.
text:Totally. I mean, I was just in charge of the wine, you know.	labels:Mm-hmm. And now you have to think about what you might eat and sometimes you don't eat the best.
text:Well I-- This is what I'm saying. Maybe I'm not thinking about it. Maybe that's the thing.	labels:Okay.
text:Maybe I'm just—	labels:Hmm.
text:You know, because it-- you know this-- the pizza shop's just on the road.	labels:Yeah.
text:And then there's-- I mean, okay, I confess that lunchtime, occasionally, it's uh, I'm hungry and McDonald's is very convenient	labels:Yeah.
text:-or Kentucky Fried or whatever.	labels:Very appealing, isn't it?
text:You know, it's very easy. and then, um, then you think to yourself, well-- I mean, I do think of myself that maybe I should have a few vegetables around here or whatever. But then you go out into the supermarkets, you know, and you can pick up, uh, your- one of your TV dinners.	labels:Mm-hmm, Mm-hmm.
text:So you bring those in and you open them up and put them in the microwave and there's vegetables there.	labels:Yeah they look pretty good on the plate, don't they?
text:Yeah, it looks- it looks fine, you know, et cetera. I mean, so that will happen occasionally if I've got a night in. But cooking-wise, no, I haven't cooked anything, um, other than boil the water for the kettle for a cup o coffee.	labels:Yeah.
text:-for ages.	labels:They're food choices in what you eat and what's in your diet it's not what-something you actually you've actually been aware of or had to think about in the past.
text:Yeah. I do miss her breakfast. I have to say, we used to have get a nice breakfast.	labels:So one thing that you noticed is diet and the eating patterns and-
text:Well—	labels:-when you eat. That's one aspect. What other aspects do you think you've-- you would be--?
text:Well, I used to be quite a heavy smoker, right? I mean, I'd smoke a pack in a half a day. And I knew that wasn't doing me any good.	labels:Right.
text:I mean the thing is when you're a-- I mean, I've always smoked. So, but when you're young and you're a sportsman, you know—	labels:You kinda juggle those two things and kinda--
text:Well, the two things they balance out, you know and everybody else is	labels:You still run and have a cigarette?
text:You know, you pass a cigarette down the backline almost, don't you? You know, just before the game gets—	labels:Hmm. Hmm. Yeah, part of the culture.
text:Yeah, part of the of the whole thing. And it's changed a bit now, because in my day when we were playing, of course, it was a very much more of a social game, which was spent-spent in the rugby club.	labels:Yeah.
text:That's why you played and it was a big buddy-buddy thing.	labels:Yeah.
text:That was rugby and cricket was the same really.	labels:Hmm.
text:Um, but now—	labels:But over the years, you've actually reduced your smoking or you've stopped altogether or at times?
text:Well I-I, yeah. I was getting a bit sort of-- I was getting a bit, you know, a bit wheezy and I thought, "I'll cut this out."	labels:Hmm.
text:But I enjoy smoking. I really do enjoy it. So I cut it down to I suppose it's about 10 a day now.	labels:Okay, so you meant to reduce.
text:Yeah, yeah.	labels:You were noticing that it's having an impact on your breathing and health wasn't so good.
text:Yeah.	labels:When you related that to your smoking, so you managed to reduce your smoking.
text:Yeah, yeah. I sort of—	labels:So you've made our decision to do that?
text:it-it-it's-- you know, she will, "Why don't you give up? You've gone so far, why don't you just stop?" But I don't want to.	labels:Hmm.
text:It's-it's-- I-I enjoy it, um—	labels:Yeah, and it's hard to get to stop something you enjoy, isn't it?
text:Well, yeah. I mean, you know, the thing is that you get to, you know, you've got to-- when you get down to that, you, uh, you have to regulate sort of-	labels:Hmm.
text:You know, you have to be quite strong-willed about, I suppose, in a way.	labels:Yeah.
text:So you say, "Okay, well, you don't have a cigarette unless you have a cup of coffee. [laughs]	labels:Hmm.
text:Of course, that's a double-edged sword a bit, because then I found I was drinking more coffee, you know.	labels:But they go together so well. And sugar in the coffee?
text:Oh, yeah, yeah. I have two sugars. A couple of sugar in coffee. Yeah, yeah.	labels:Hmm.
text:So we cut that down as I say.	labels:Hmm.
text:But the problem goes that coffee, we're up to 8 or so, 10 cups of coffee a day now.	labels:You're drinking more coffee. So what I've heard you say so far is, if I can just start right back from the beginning and you used to come in and sais, "I went to the doctor." You went for-- it sounds like you went for just a checkup.
text:No, you know, there's a friend of mine, one of the guys down the rugby club, he said- he said, "I'm going for my annual, you know-	labels:MIT.
text:-warranty of fitness, sort of thing, you know. And I thought, now that's an idea, not been to one of those.	labels:Got to check out, why not?
text:So I'm 55, and you read in the papers, you know, it's that at 55 you will-- you know, heart disease is more prevalent	labels:Hmm.
text:-and all these sorts of things that you get around this middle-age time. So I thought, "Well, I'll go and have one." And frankly, when I went along, I was very confident. I thought, you know, the doctor is going to saying, "Hmm, I wish I was as healthy as you," sort of thing.	labels:Yeah.
text:Um, but unfortunately, uh, he-he came up with this. And it's the only thing I think he really came up with. I think-	labels:So everything else looked pretty good?
text:My cholesterol is quite good, not too bad.	labels:Cholesterol good, your weight is good.
text:Yeah-yeah. Not too bad.	labels:Um, you are smoking, but you've managed to reduce that.
text:Well, yeah, I've cut it down, yeah. I mean, that's been three years, mind.	labels:And anything else, you know, you go ticking down the list. The tire is good, oil good.
text:Absolutely.	labels:So we're looking good.
text:And then we come to this-	labels:And ah, hang on.
text:-too much sugar in the tank, or something. I don't know.	labels:Yeah, there's something wrong with the, uh, with this bit.
text:So, yeah.	labels:And it doesn't quite fit with how you see your own lifestyle.
text:No.	labels:Because you've-- it sounds like what you've been doing, you've made some conscious effort to be aware of some of those things you might think are important.
text:I mean, yeah. I mean, you know, the thing is, you see, the thing is, and I mean, and probably you've-- I think you've heard this before, but people, they turn around, oh, uh, you know, doom and gloom prophets, you shouldn't drink.	labels:Mm.
text:You shouldn't smoke.	labels:Yeah.
text:And then I think to myself, "Well, maybe I shouldn't socialize." And then after that, "Well, maybe I shouldn't be alive."	labels:So like a domino effect, and they'll all be just sitting-
text:You know. I mean, what-what-what's going on here? This is- this is- this is so many people's lives.	labels:Mm-hm.
text:And um, I suppose, you know, if it came down to it, then, and somebody said, "Well, you can solve this problem by taking a pill once a day, um, you know, it will keep it down, and there will be no problems," Then I-I could go with that. But what I don't want to do, um, the doctor was saying, or insinuating, that I'd have to change my lifestyle.	labels:A bit broad kind of like you've gotta change everything.
text:Yeah. It was um, and I-I said, well, no. I'm sorry. [coughs] I'm not going to change my lifestyle. I've got to where I am. I'm reasonably happy. Okay, I wish I wasn't separated. Okay, I wish my kids were-were still around, um, you know. One of them is off now in, um, in-- back in Europe playing rugby in France.	labels:Yeah. And your thought was, yeah, right, I hear that, but actually, I don't want to make all these big changes in my life.
text:No, I don't want to, because I don't feel that I need to.	labels:Feel like you need to. Yeah.
text:I mean, it's you know, why?	labels:Mm.
text:Um, I can't argue with a medical professional, Mark, because I know nothing, you know.	labels:The test, is the test, and experience, yeah.
text:So, I mean, what-what-what-what suggestions would you have? I mean, what-what sort of-	labels:I don't know. I think it's up to you where we start, and that's the question I've got in my mind. You've mentioned a couple of things that you've already made some effort, or been conscious of. You've mentioned the diet, you've mentioned your smoking, those are two quite important aspects that we often talk about here in how people work.
text:Is smoking related to diabetes then?	labels:It can have an impact, yes. So smoking, um, affects your blood system, so it hardens the arteries, um, and over time, it can have a significant impact on the healing of wounds. So people with Type II diabetes, often, if they get a cut, or a bruise, or something, it takes a long time to heal. Smoking reduces the amount of oxygen in your system, so that can further, you know, limit the time it takes your body to heal.
text:Oh.	labels:So we know that smoking and Type II diabetes together-
text:Don't help.	labels:-isn't a good combination.
text:Is it okay if you have one without the other? I'm sorry, it's a silly question. [laughs]	labels:Well, the question is, I suppose, that I have for you is, where would you think, for you, would be a good place to start? If you were gonna make any changes, even small changes at the beginning, rather than just thinking, oh, I got to change everything, which it sounds like you're not prepared to, you know, do a whole lifestyle change, and I don't think that's what we're talking about here. Where would you feel most comfortable to start if you were gonna make any changes at all?
text:Where would I start? Well, I-- What if about if I cut down on sugar in the coffee? If we could have long blacks, no milk, and no sugar.	labels:Yeah. Hmm, that might be a start.
text:I think I could- I think I could probably handle that.	labels:Hm. What we also find is that people make these little changes, small changes, and that starts to kind of well, it makes them-
text:Something of a rollover effect.	labels:-rollover, the domino effect starts to happen, and they start looking at other aspects.
text:Domino effect, yeah.	labels:So rather than thinking, "oh, my God, I have to change all these things. I've gotta stop smoking, I've gotta exercise more, I've gotta, you know, start eating more fruit and vegetables," you might start with these small changes, and then-
text:I mean, how much exercise should I do a week?	labels:Um, I-I'm reluctant to give a prescription for that because I think it's really up to you. And I think it depends on how things go, as to how much you need to do.
text:Right.	labels:You mentioned earlier on, the doctors talking about you monitoring your blood sugar.
text:Yeah.	labels:So on how-- It depends on how-how that goes. Let's say, if you started doing that and you do some more exercise, you start to have longer blacks, rather than short blacks with lots of sugar. And you get down the sugar and you find your blood sugar starts to come down, then we're heading in the right direction.
text:Okay, so—	labels:So it's really, I suppose, up to how things go for you, and you get that feedback. And if that's going in the right direction, you carry on doing and do some more of that.
text:So, a-are we saying then that-that, really all I need to do, for this moment, is I can forget about everything, but cut out the sugar, uh, in the coffee and the milk-- I don't know, but you might as well, you know, milk without sugar is silly. But, um, if we do that, is that where we start?	labels:I think where we start is where you feel comfortable starting.
text:Well, I mean that's something that's not difficult to do.	labels:Apples for breakfast.
text:You start off at breakfast and get yourself an apple, a bit-a bit of apple and-and so on. Um—	labels:So what I'm hearing you're kind of saying is, that there's-- You're now starting to think of some very useful little starting points.
text:Maybe.	labels:Not huge changes, but some little things you could do.
text:Yeah.	labels:And it's kind of dawning on you there may be some possibilities here for making some changes. Let me ask you this. Um, let's say you put some of these things in place and you start to make some of these small changes.
text:Yeah.	labels:Um, where do you see that taking you in the next set of three, four, five years? You know, where do you want to be in three to four years' time? What would be your ideal picture?
text:Well, you know, and this is difficult because I don't feel unhealthy now.	labels:No.
text:So, I suppose it would be fun to-- Maybe I should join a club or two, that's what I'm thinking because I'll be with mates.	labels:Yeah? You like the social aspect?
text:I love the social aspect of it, and, um, there's-there's-- I know there's a bar in this club as well. I-- Don't-don't misunderstand me, I don't drink-	labels:No, no, I get that. I get that.
text:-till-- You know, I'm not an alcoholic or anything like that, I—	labels:So part of that whole keeping fit and exercise stuff is actually the social side of it, isn't it?
text:So yeah, so to get that balance, and maybe that's what I'm actually missing in life, and maybe this is, um-- I mean yes I do get up in the morning sometimes, and I suppose I do feel a bit—	labels:Yeah.
text:You know? Even after a decent night's sleep, you know?	labels:Haven't quite that-
text:And you need-- I'm getting this cup of coffee and maybe I'm—	labels:And the coffee helps a little bit because it perks you up?
text:And that gets me going. Yeah.	labels:And the sugar in it helps too.
text:Yeah, the sugar gives me the boost, I suppose. I-it's fantastic.	labels:So what I'm hearing is that your life, your work, your routines are-- Sometimes you're driving or you've got to keep awake, get up in the morning sometimes and you haven't quite got that buzz or the energy. You need a shot, and then throughout the day you might need just more shots to keep that energy up.
text:Hmm. If I give up sugar in my coffee, give up the milk, black coffees, right?	labels:Yeah.
text:if I find some social form of exercise, like squash.	labels:And an activity which has got a starting to finish and it's something you do for a slot.
text:Yeah.	labels:And then there's maybe some social aspects to it as well.
text:Yeah, and then—	labels:You can see some benefits and some enjoyment that.
text:And then, you know, give this, say, six months, I don't know what period it would be, then go back to the GP and say, "Test me again."	labels:That sounds like a great plan.
text:And so maybe that would, uh—	labels:Yeah, sounds like a good idea.
text:Maybe it's an idea. I mean—	labels:I think anything you do, it has to be something you've decided. You know, just start where you want to start. You've mentioned some really good ideas about possibly getting a little bit more exercise into your life, doing something like squash or something of that nature. You've mentioned some really good ideas about reducing the amount of sugar you-you-you're-you're intaking during the day, and coffee is a good place to start. Having an apple for breakfast, I think you mentioned that, a bit of fruit.
text:Yeah, like my wife used to. Yeah.	labels:Those are some really good ideas and good starting points. So thinking about it like that, what-- Where are you now? What's your-- What-what-- Where-where is your thinking now?
text:Well, you see, I mean, I'm thinking, "Actually it might not be a bad idea this," because [chuckles] it would mean I could socialize harder, couldn't I? No, no I'm just joking. Uh, but, um, yeah, I mean, why not? Why not? Why not? It might be fun, it's a new path.	labels:What's to lose? What's to gain?
text:Well, it would appear that there is something to gain, and-- I mean, I-- What do I lose? I don't know until I do it. But I'm thinking that if I do it and I do what I'm enjoying doing, I won't miss what I'm not doing. Does that make sense?	labels:It does make sense, yeah.
text:Um, yeah I don't mind. I-- It's not a—	labels:So when you look at it, there's probably more to gain from making these changes than there is to lose.
text:I'll talk to Billy about, um-- Billy is, um, he's the gym bloke.	labels:Right.
text:I'll have a word with him because I'm due down the club tonight.	labels:Yeah.
text:Really.	labels:So you've got to work these things on your mind. You know, the-- And workout where's the place to start.
text:Yeah, I think that you say where-where you're at now, where you're going, where—	labels:Yeah.
text:-and-and-and this is what I've got to do. I think I'm in a rut. I think that's where I've—	labels:You've been stuck?
text:I'm-I'm just-- I'm-I'm satisfiedly sort of contented, uh, sitting in this- in this rut and, um, that my doctor has actually di-diagnosed me with diabetes 2-	labels:Yeah?
text:-which he says can be managed, and you seem to be insinuating that it can be managed.	labels:Indeed, yeah.
text:Uh, maybe this is a blessing, actually-	labels:So rather than--
text:-because I think to myself, "Well, if someday, I am diagnosed with diabetes, I'd just carry on and-"	labels:Carrying on.
text:"-sitting in the corner of the bar, and chat, and talk and probably get fat." I don't know, and make it worse. And, yeah, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe.	labels:So it's been a bit of a-a bit of a shock, but now you kinda reflect on it.
text:Yeah, that's cool.	labels:Maybe this is the-
text:That's really cool.	labels:-bit of a shake that I needed, you know, just sort of remind me. I might feel okay. I might-- From my perspective, your perspective, you're thinking, "Well, what's the problem? Everything's fine."
text:Mm.	labels:But now you seem to be thinking looking and thinking, "Maybe things weren't, or aren't, as good as I thought they were."
text:Yeah, I mean, I think you're quite right. I think you just—	labels:Things could be better?
text:I don't know, you become sedentary, don't you? No, it seems that-- No, actually, this is quite exciting. It quite [unintelligible 00:31:28]	labels:Yeah, I sense that. I sense that in you that you're--
text:I think to myself, I think, "Oh," I think go—	labels:Quite invigorated with the idea of--
text:Yeah. I mean, this is- this is- this is cool, it's like an old challenge again.	labels:Making some of these changes. Yeah.
text:This is good. And, um—	labels:You're up for the challenge?
text:I think I am. I mean, I never thought about it, but when I think about it now it's, "What am I doing here?" Why am I like this? Why am I just happy contented to drift?	labels:So think about when you were-- This-this is an interesting question to see what you think. You were- you were a coach. You-- Maybe you'll be a coach again.
text:Yeah.	labels:What would you say if you were talking to yourself, if you like, you know, if you were the coach saying, "Right--"
text:Oh, so if I was obs- if I was sort of-	labels:Yeah, what-what would you be saying?
text:-observing as it were?	labels:Yeah.
text:Watching myself, what would I say? I-I-- Well, I would say, you know, are you happy?	labels:Yeah.
text:That-- Are you contented with that performance of you and your team?	labels:And, I suppose, our own personalized a little bit like that, there's lots of different aspects that need to be tweaked.
text:Yeah.	labels:Modified and looked at, to get the best out of ourselves, to get the best out of the opportunities we have.
text:I think you're- I think you're right. I think, um-- And again, you put them together and it's-it's-it's becoming-- It's-it's a sort of a-an individual team job, isn't it really?	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:That, okay, do a bit of this and do a bit of that.	labels:Some good things I'm- some things I'm good at and there are some other aspects we think, "Well--"
text:Yeah, but I don't have to give up anything really, do I?	labels:It's not about giving up your personality or-
text:No.	labels:-changing who you are fundamentally.
text:No it's not. It's not.	labels:It's just tweaking things. Just fine-tuning a few areas and being a bit more aw-aware of one aspect of your life a bit more, like the food choices or whatever. Well, Mike, I-I've really enjoyed listening to your perspective, and your story a little bit, and it's helped me a lot to get an idea about where you're coming from, and a little bit about who you are, and what's happened in your past. And-and we've also talked a bit about what's going to happen next. And you've come up with some great ideas. What I hear you saying is that, you know, before all this, before you met the GP, things are going fine.Well, as you would of-- As, you know, as you'd seen it, you were just doing your thing, and getting on working, and being busy, and being successful, and then suddenly this diagnosis, this doctor tells you that you've got a problem.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:It comes along to me and talk today a bit about how you felt about that. Initially, it can be quite a bit of a-bit of a shock. It didn't quite fit with how you saw things.
text:True, true.	labels:And as we've been talking, I'm hearing you're saying that maybe if you look back to where you were before you went to the doctor, things weren't quite that right, maybe. Things weren't as good as you thought they were.
text:Now that I think about it- now that I think about it, maybe.	labels:Yeah.
text:Maybe they were.	labels:And what I also hear you saying, it's possibly the-- It's now possibly more possible, in your mind, that you could make some of these changes, rather than bring broad-brush, you know, huge changes to your lifestyles. It's not about changing who you are, it's not changing huge facets of your life, but maybe small steps that need to be taken.
text:Yeah, you see—	labels:What you're kind of thinking about what those might.
text:Mm. When your life comes to a halt-	labels:Mm.
text:-your family splits up, or whatever, and you don't have anymore, I-I think you stop caring really. Uh, y-you know, you stop caring about yourself	labels:Yeah.
text:Because everything is just f-	labels:Nobody there too.
text:Nobody there, [crosstalk] it's true and so,-	labels:Yeah.
text:-you know,-	labels:Mhm.
text:-you don't care.	labels:So now it's time-
text:So that's maybe [crosstalk]	labels:-to think about looking after yourself a bit more.
text:Maybe, a bit selfish but maybe why not?	labels:Why not?
text:Why not? Yeah, that's a good idea.	labels:Yeah. So, we've run out of time but I also want to ask you a final question, where to from here, what's next?
text:Oh right, well, wha-what we talked about. Now, you know, uh, okay, uh, coffee. Right? No sugar.	labels:You'll start with that?
text:I'll start with that.	labels:Yeah.
text:Um, I'm gonna, um, I'll be talking to Bill, uh-	labels:The gym.
text:-about the gym but-	labels:Yeah.
text:-I like the idea of, actually again doing squash-	labels:Yeah.
text:-or something else-	labels:Yeah.
text:-and I'm gonna go down to the rugby club and I'll- I know that will be accepted. I'll offer my services again because-	labels:Yeah.
text:-it was reasonably successful.	labels:Yeah.
text:And, uh—	labels:And you also mentioned you'll perhaps go and- back and see the doctor and just give him a bit of an update as to-
text:No, [crosstalk] oh, well, okay, yeah I didn't- yeah, I'll go back and say-- Well, look, I'd-I'd rather not go back to the doctor and say, "I'm gonna do this, this, this-	labels:Yeah.
text:-this and this.	labels:Mhm.
text:This is between you and me.	labels:Yep.
text:All right?	labels:It's fine.
text:But this is what I'm gonna do. All right? And like I said, I'm gonna make the inquiries, I will start there-	labels:Sure.
text:-I will give up, uh, I'll give up the V drinks,-	labels:Mhm.
text:-I think, um, look for some better wine. [laughter] Um, and-and I-I'd take an interest really.	labels:You are gonna make a start?
text:I'll take an interest really and-and, uh, but it is quite exciting, Mark.	labels:It is. Well, just to help you, because there's probably a lot of other questions you might have, other questions that might come up after this session.
text:Yeah.	labels:-before we go, I'd like to just-just give you a lot of- some information that might help-help you.
text:Not too much.	labels:Not too much, just some stuff that might just give you a little bit of background information on-
text:Yeah, yeah.	labels:-some of the things that have-
text:Just give me a bit of background, really.	labels:-around type- around Type II diabetes and some,-
text:Oh, yeah, and what it is-	labels:[unintelligible 00:36:53] some of that.
text:-because I don't really know. Yeah, yeah.	labels:Um, and I'd like to us- for us to meet again, so to catch up with you and make an appointment before you leave. Just to see how things are going and-
text:Okay.	labels:-see what sort of little changes you've managed to make. I'd be really [unintelligible 00:37:07]-
text:Wha-what are we talking about, sort of few months down the line?	labels:It's really up to you. Probably a little bit sooner would be good.
text:What, in about a month's time?	labels:That'd be great.
text:Yeah, okay, I'm up for that.	labels:How does that sound?
text:I'm up for that. Yeah, now-now that's putting me, um, that's very gently putting my head on the block	labels:Because you don't know the timeline?
text:-and I don't mind that because, um, yeah, that's cool.	labels:Mhm.
text:Yeah, yeah. I'll see you in a month.	labels:Yeah.
text:No worries.	labels:Excellent, excellent. Thanks, Mike. [croostalk]
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:I don't really wanna be here, but it-it-- whatever.
labels:Got it.	text:Um, she-she found my stash-
labels:Uh-huh.	text:-and she freaked out, and she's going crazy over it. Um, I don't why she was going through stuff in the first place, but whatever, so, now I'm here.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Um, I've been hanging out with a new cool crowd of people that I really like.
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:Uh, a-and-and that's-that's basically it.
labels:Yeah. So-so you've got this new group of friends and-and, um, you-you actually kind of like where you're at with things right now. And your mom was going through your stuff and found your stash, and it's just turned into a, you know, all of this.	text:Yeah.
labels:Yeah.	text:Yeah, basically.
labels:Yeah.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:And, uh, sounds like you're-you're pretty upset with your mom for-for doing that?	text:I am.
labels:Yeah.	text:I mean, it's my stuff, I don't know why she's—
labels:Right. It's like your private place and, you know, it's-- that's-- it's your stuff.	text:I-I don't go- I don't go through her s- I don't go through her stuff. I don't go through her purse. I don't—
labels:Yeah. So why should she go through yours?	text:Right.
text:That's great.	labels:However, I'm pretty concerned about something I'm noticing in your mouth. Actually, if you look up here, the roof of your mouth, I'm noticing a lot of irritation that's really consistent with tobacco use. And you had said on your form that you're not a tobacco user, so I'm just wondering what's going on.
text:I don't smoke cigarettes.	labels:Okay. Well, as I said, there's a lot of irritation, in particular, like I was mentioning, up here in the roof of your mouth, it's turned really definitely white-colored and there's little red spots. And you probably didn't notice because we don't spend a lot of time looking at the roof of our mouth, but you're really damaging this tissue in your mouth, which can really cause some severe problems in terms of your oral health. It's called nicotinic stomatitis. And this is something we don't see in any patients who don't use tobacco. So, maybe you're not smoking cigarettes, are you smoking a pipe or cigars? Or is there something else that could be contributing to this? Because I don't know what else might be causing it.
text:Well, the only thing-- I've never smoked cigarettes ever, um, but, um, when, um, when I go out with my friends, um, we like to go to, you know, we like to go out to lounges.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And, um, you know, sometimes they're those- those, uh, nice young men that gift you different sorts of things. And we got some of those mini cigars that are Swisher sweets, they come in peach and-and grape and-and, you know, that's the only time that really, you know, I've ever really used anything that-that's got tobacco in it.	labels:Okay, so I think that's a pretty common misconception, because they're fruit-flavored, people think they're okay. Those are really bad for you. Did you know that?
text:Really? Bad? But they're just little, mini, little, cute little girly cigars.	labels:Right. They're still cigars and they're still tobacco and so they still cause lung cancer, oral cancer, emphysema, all those same kinds of things that you would see with cigarette, so it's really important.
text:Well, I only use them just to relax. I mean, it's not like it's something that I would smoke 20 or 30 cigarettes a day, I mean, I only do it when we go out.	labels:Uh-huh. Well, that's, I mean, at least you're not doing that, so that's good, but it's still causing a lot of problems. And as I said, I can see that the evidence in the roof of your mouth, you're causing some serious damage, and this needs to stop. Have you thought about quitting?
text:Well, I didn't really know I'd started.	labels:What do you mean?
text:I didn't really think that it was anything more than just like social drinking, just something that I do in a social setting when me and my friends go out to the bars.	labels:So you're gonna quit then?
text:Uh, maybe.	labels:What do you mean, maybe? I just told you how bad it is for you. It's messing up your mouth, you're putting yourself at risk for all these other diseases. This is really important. You need to quit.
text:Well, it's something that I'll have to think about.	labels:What's there to think about? [chuckles] You said it's not that something you do all that often, and there's all these negative side effects, there's all these risks that you're putting yourself in.
text:Well, it's just something that I do to relax, and I don't do it that often. And so I probably could cut back.	labels:Okay, well, that's a good start, but cutting back isn't going to do it. If you actually quit the smoking, you can reverse all the damage you've done in your mouth, and you can stop yourself from- from being at risk for these other diseases. But as long as you're continuing to use these cigars you're really putting yourself in a lot of danger.
text:Well, I don't believe that they are cigars. And what I do believe is that it's a choice and it's my right, and it's something that I choose to do. And so I will think about cutting back, but I'm not at a point where I'm ready to do that. And I'm not really sure that I even believe that what you're telling me is real.	labels:You're choosing to really damage your mouth and actually, it can cause problems with your teeth too. I don't know if you notice your teeth might be getting yellower than they were before. That's another side effect. There are a lot of really negative things that go along with any tobacco use, whether it's cigarettes, cigars, dip, chew, snuffs, snus, hookah, any of it. This is a really important decision that you're making and you said it's your choice, but you're really choosing to make yourself sick and potentially die.
text:Well, it's something that I'll think about.	labels:Well, I appreciate you thinking about it. I hope you'll think about it really hard. You know, this is something that I'm gonna continue to ask you about because it's something that really needs to change.	episode:True
labels:Great. It sounds like there are a lot of activities that you do like-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-and I'm hearing a theme of climate control, [chuckles] being important to you and you've already been researching gyms.	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:Tell me more about that.	text:Yeah. So I just- on my phone, if I'm like in the grocery store, I'm kind of just looking through, and on Google, I'll type in like "Gyms in the area" and I'll look and see what's there. And, um, I don't ever want to sign up to learn more 'cause I feel like then they just keep emailing you forever. So at this point, I'm just trying to kind of figure out what I can, based on their website as far as cost goes, but that, um, month to month is kind of really important for me. Just like I mentioned, I don't want to be paying for six months or a year out.
labels:Right. Okay. So you're looking for some-something that's reasonably priced-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-and that you don't have to sign a contract and you're right. It's hard to tell what the cost is just from looking on the website.	text:Yeah.
labels:And I completely agree [laughs]about wanting to avoid the sales pitch-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-um, element of it. What seems like a logical next step based on-- You've kind of already gotten the ball rolling. What feels like a logical next step?	text:Yeah, I think, um, you know, I've kind of looked around and seen what I- what's available to me. Um, I think the next step would be to maybe go visit one place and just see, like, what equipment they have. Um, I also think too, I'd like to be outside when the weather permits. I like to walk. I just- I don't like rain or snow or cold, like, um, I don't like doing things when I'm just not in a climate that's enjoyable. So if there is, uh, decent weather, I think going outside and, you know, getting some steps in or just walking would be a good first start for me.
labels:Okay. So maybe visiting a gym and then also choosing a non-gym activity to sort of get started when the weather's permitting.	text:Right. Yeah.
labels:I have one, um, idea that is jumping into my mind as you're talking. Is it okay if I share that?	text:Sure. Yeah.
labels:I'm wondering about the price of the YMCA compared to other gyms. Uh, is that one that you have an interest in or have looked at already?	text:I don't know that I've looked closely at that. I don't know much about their pricing or anything like that.
labels:Yes. And honestly, I don't either. [chuckles] I just suspect that it might be slightly cheaper than some of the more private gyms.	text:I agree.
labels:So something to look into if you're interested.	text:Yeah, definitely.
labels:And they-- I would suspect they'd be less sales pitch-oriented than a private gym. So it might be a safe place to explore first-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-and to build some confidence in that conversation.	text:Yeah, no, yeah. That's a good-good recommendation. I'll definitely check it out.
labels:Okay. Great. So, um, in addition to exploring the gym possibility, what sounds like a logical next step for a non-gym activity to get started, some small goal that feels doable, um, and you have control over because it doesn't require the perfect weather-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-or the perfect gym?	text:Yeah. I think, you know, finding ways to walk more would be good, um, even if that is inside somewhere. Uh, I've done the like trick of parking in the back of the parking lot and walking up to the store. Um, and like I've also been in Target and taken an extra lap, which is kind of dangerous too 'cause you might spend more money. Um, but I- I think if the weather's nice too, I would like to get outside and try to find a place to walk. Um, and two, I really did enjoy yoga, it's- it was good for my, like, flexibility and posture, and so I would be interested in maybe seeing too what classes are available in the area. I haven't looked at that at all.
labels:Okay. So exploring some yoga classes. Is-is doing yoga in your living room appealing to you at all?	text:Home workouts have never really worked for me in the past just because there's so many distractions, and I can, like, set the mat out there and everything and get everything ready, like bottled water, everything's good to go. And then it just sits there and I don't actually do it, whereas if I go somewhere else, I'm already there. And so I'm doing it.
labels:That's great. It's important to know this about yourself, what works, and what doesn't work, and what you feel motivated to do. So, it sounds like we sort of have two small goals right now. One is to maybe visit the YMCA and-and find out how much that costs-	text:Mm-hmm.
labels:-and the other goal being maybe just a walk, um, one time between now and the next time I see you. Um, and I say one time, you can, of course, go more than that, but just with snow in the forecast, it might be reasonable to start with a small goal like that and go for one nice day between now and a few weeks from now when I get to see you again. How do those two goals sound?	text:No, that sounds good. I-I definitely think, um, I'll walk probably more than one time in the next couple of weeks, but, um, I also have this app on my phone that tracks my steps, uh, and it was like built into the phone. It's nothing I downloaded or anything. So I can also use that to kind of see if I'm getting more active 'cause right now I think I'm averaging like 2,000 steps a day, so it's like a lot of sitting.
labels:Okay. So you'd like to kind of get motivated with- with the use of an app and that might help you get started.	text:Yeah, I think so.
labels:Okay, fantastic. So, on a scale from 0 to 10, 10 being really confident, I can research a gym and go for one walk, and zero being not at all confident, how are you feeling about these two small goals?	text:I think I'm at a 10.
labels:Okay.	text:Yeah. I think that, like I said, I think I'll find ways to walk. Um, and I'm at a point now where I've done as much research, I've found out as much information, I think, as I can on the gyms that are local here. Um, but I will check out the- the Y to see if it maybe is a bit cheaper and also a bit more, like, welcoming and doesn't require a- like, a six-month contract or anything like that. So I feel like those would both be good starts. Yeah.
labels:Wonderful. Are there any other barriers that would be helpful to sort of talk through?	text:Um, well, if I'm trying to walk outside, the weather's always going to be one, but I, again, like I said, if I'm checking, uh, using the app on my phone to see my step count, I can maybe make more of a priority to walk indoors, um, and just find places inside that I could walk, even if it's just around the hallway or whatever that looks like-
labels:Okay. So being creative with your indoor space is a-is a solution you've come up with yourself for - f there just aren't any good days, nice days outside.	text:Yeah, but hopefully there's one. So, yeah.
labels:Great. Well, you came in today feeling pretty discouraged about your energy levels and your mood and, um, feeling lousy about your body in general. And, uh, today we've talked about a small-small step to get started and you're hoping to experience some mood boost and some energy as you get rolling here. Um, how are you feeling about today's session?	text:No, I feel really good. I think even coming in, I didn't have a like step-by-step idea of what I wanted to do next, but no, this has been helpful to know what those small steps are, and like you said, hopefully, I do start feeling better. Yeah.
labels:Great. Well, I look forward to checking in with you, and thanks so much for coming in.	text:Thanks for having me. All right.	episode:True
labels:So, what you're saying is you've had a rough night?	text:Yes. She was up every three hours to eat, I don't understand it.
labels:So, she needed to eat every three hours last night and that was really frustrating for you?	text:Yes. My mom told me that I started sleeping through the night when I was a month old, Lilly is six weeks.
labels:Hmm. So, based on what your mom told you, you were expecting Lilly at this point to be sleeping through the night?	text:Well, what is normal for a baby this age?	episode:True
text:Yeah. My doctor said he called something in.	labels:Okay. It looks like cholesterol statin. Do you know how you're supposed to take the medication?
text:No, not really.	labels:Well, you just take it once a day. Did he tell you what side effects to expect?
text:No.	labels:Well, some of the common ones are nausea, vomiting, headache. There are some severe ones like dermatomyositis, liver failure, lupus, rhabdomyolysis, hemorrhagic cerebral infarction. If you have any of those, just call your doctor.
text:Okay. Um, why am I taking this medication?	labels:It's for your dyslipidemia. Oh yeah, just one tablet a day. Do you have any questions for me?
text:No, I guess not.	labels:All right. Great. Have a good day.
labels:Hello, Kaylie. I see you're here to pick up a prescription today.	text:Yeah. My doctor said he called something in.
labels:Oh, it looks like he called in cholesterol statin. Do you know how you're supposed to take this medication?	text:No, not really.
labels:Okay. Well, you take this one once a day. Did he tell you what side effects to expect?	text:No.
labels:All right. Well, some of the common side effects are nausea, vomiting, headache. There are some severe side effects like dermatomyositis, liver failure, lupus, rhabdomyolysis, hemorrhagic, cerebral infarction. If you have any of those, you should call your doctor.	text:Okay. Um, so why am I taking this medication?
labels:It's for your dyslipidemia. Oh, and you should take one every day. Do you have any questions for me?	text:I guess not.
text:Sure. I'm just getting a few groceries.	labels:Okay. What did the doctor tell you cholesterol statin is for?
text:Well, he told me that I had a blood test for cholesterol, and that I should start taking this.	labels:He's right. This medicine is designed to help lower your cholesterol, and that means that it will help lower your risk of having a heart attack or a stroke. How did your doctor tell you to take this medicine?
text:He didn't really tell me. He just phoned it in.	labels:Okay. Well, you're going to take one tablet of cholesterol statin 20 one time a day by mouth, and you can take that with or without food. When do you normally take your medications?
text:Well, I take all of my other medications right before I go to bed. So I guess I could take it then.	labels:Okay. That's perfect because cholesterol statin works best if it's taken at night, though you can take it any time of the day. And you should take it every single day. It's important to keep that up. Where do you store your medications?
text:I store my medications, uh, in my nightstand, right by my bed.	labels:All right. Do you have any children in your home?
text:No.	labels:Okay. Well, then that sounds like a perfect location for you. Medicines keep best if they're stored away from light and heat and moisture. What did the doctor tell you to expect in terms of side effects?
text:He didn't mention anything about that.	labels:All right. Well, this medication is pretty well tolerated, which means it doesn't have very many side effects. But you might experience some mild muscle aches and pains. If they seem really severe to you, then you should call Dr. Ferris and talk to him about that. Also this medicine can interact with a lot of other medications, and even over the counter things. So check with the doctor or myself before you start anything new. And lastly, grapefruit juice can interact with cholesterol statin 20. So if you use grapefruit juice every day, I probably would switch to a different juice while you're on this medication.
labels:Just so I know we're on the same page, can you repeat back to me how you'll take this medicine?	text:Sure. I'm just gonna take one tablet right before I go to bed with my other medications. And I guess I will switched to orange juice. And if I notice any muscle pain that is severe, I'll call Dr. Ferris right away.
labels:Great, Kaylie. I know we went over a lot today. What other questions do you have for me?	text:Uh, I think you answered all my questions. Thank you.
text:Sure. I'm just getting a few groceries.	labels:All right. What did the doctor tell you cholesterol statin is for?
text:He told me that I had a blood test for cholesterol so that I should start taking this medication.	labels:All right, and he's right. This medication will help lower your cholesterol, and it will help lower your risk of having a heart attack or a stroke. How did the doctor tell you to take this medicine?
text:He didn't tell me, he just phoned it in.	labels:All right. Well, you're going to take one tablet of cholesterol statin 20 one time a day by mouth, and you can take that with or without food. When do you usually take your medications?
text:I take all my other medications right before I go to bed. So I guess I could take it then.	labels:That's perfect. This medication can be taken any time of the day, but it does work best if taken in the evening, and it's important to take it every day.
labels:Where do you store your medications?	text:I store them all in the nightstand by my bed.
labels:Do you have children in your house?	text:No. I don't have any kids.
text:He didn't mention anything about that.	labels:All right. Well, this medication is usually well tolerated, which means that it doesn't have very many side effects, but you might experience some muscle aches or pains. If they seem really severe to you, then you should call Dr. Ferris and talk to him about that. Also, this medication can interact with over-the-counter medicines or even other medications. So before you start something new, you should check with either Dr. Ferris or myself. And lastly, this medication can interact with grapefruit juice. So while you're taking this medicine, I would avoid grapefruit juice.
labels:Just so we know we're on the same page, can you repeat back to me how you are going to take this medicine?	text:Sure. I'm just gonna take one tablet of the cholesterol statin, uh, in the evening with all my other medications. And I guess I'll switch to orange juice. And if I notice any bad muscle pains, then I'll be sure to call Dr. Ferris right away.
labels:That's great, Kaylie. I know we went over a lot today. What questions do you still have for me?	text:I think you answered all my questions. Thank you.
text:Mm-hmm. Um, yeah, my asthma has just been out of control lately and my doctor says that might be connected to Oscar.	labels:Hmm. So, what- can you let me know or-or what do you know about your asthma and the things that affected or might make it worse?
text:Um, I've got allergy testing. It's just, uh, the dust makes it bad. I thought the smoking was the main thing-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-that's cut down. Um, and then they said the drinking might contribute to it, too. So, I got a lot of different things I'm working on. So that's what I know.	labels:Hmm.
text:The drinking, the smoking and the dust that I got, the, um, the scratch test for.	labels:Right.
text:And-and-and that's what I know, and that I take the medicine for it.	labels:Okay. And that your pet has never been mentioned as a concern?
text:No, I've had it for-for 12 years and now it's a concern. I don't understand.	labels:Hmm. Yeah. And I-I can see that you've already worked hard to make some changes. You've almost quit smoking.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:You're just down to your last couple of cigarettes-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-and you're not even smoking those in the house.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:So, your house is totally smoke-free.
text:Yes, just that work with the [unintelligible 00:01:24].	labels:Yeah, okay. And you have also thought about cutting back on alcohol.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-and-and I think you mentioned done-done a little bit towards that.
text:Mm-hmm. I'm a little I'm a couple of down. I used to drink four at night, now I'm down to three at least.	labels:Okay, okay.
text:Uh-huh.	labels:So now almost like that's not good enough, like now you have to, now it's the dog and now-
text:Mm-hmm, what's next, yeah, yeah.	labels:-what's next. Right. Okay. So, I mean, there is certainly a lot of evidence that pets in the home and the dander from their fur can make asthma worse.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-but I wonder what are your experiences with Oscar, you know, when he's in the house or-or maybe sleeping near you or you're around him, what happens with your asthma symptoms?
text:Well, we keep them clean, like he's cleaned. So, all the dander doesn't really make sense, but I have been noticing that sometimes when he comes on the bed or just beside, I wheeze a little bit, but I think it has to do with, um, the hair, the, in my lungs cleaning itself up from the smoking.	labels:Okay.
text:So, I don't know if it's that-that's where I'm confused. I don't know how this could be happening.	labels:Hmm. So, it doesn't make total sense to you that-that it's all Oscar's fault and that-
text:Mm-hmm, Mm-hmm.	labels:That's that the only solution.
text:But-but the wheezing is something that I've definitely noticed a little bit.	labels:I guess I also wonder whether, regardless of-of if your asthma symptoms are connected to Oscar, that may be part of you feels like it's worth it because he's been-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-such a big part of your life for so long.
text:Mm-hmm, Mm-hmm. I just want some medicine and I want to keep Oscar and I wanna feel better about myself because I'm making all these changes in my life and it honestly feels like my-my nose is just above the water.	labels:Hmm. Yeah. And-and in the end, you know, whatever you- whatever you do, about Oscar, about your asthma, about all the other things that we talked about on that agenda-setting worksheet, I mean, you are in the driver's seat solid. It really is your choice.
text:Mm-hmm. Yeah, no, that feels good. That I, you know, at least it is my choice. I just feel like just about, I'm not feeling happy about just all these different things that are coming up. Um, and I'm kind of sad about things.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:And I don't know, I don't know what to do.	labels:There's a lot of decisions and a lot of change with your wife, with the new baby.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:And now thinking about, looking after your health and wanting to be healthy for your wife and your baby.
text:Mm-hmm. I want- I want John Carlos to grow up with Oscar. So he has his friend when he's young, too. And, um, I just, it's a lot of stress and a lot of things you-you gotta think about then, um, I'm not feeling good about it.	labels:Mm-hmm, so what-what would need to happen or how would you know, when you- when or if you ever did have to make a decision about whether to keep Oscar with you or not?
text:Man, uh, how would I know? I don't know. I think if my asthma got really bad and the medicine- she gave me the strongest medicine and it wasn't working.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:That would be the way right now 'cause I can't see, I don't know how I'm going to give this dog up.	labels:Yeah and I get the feeling that it's something that you wanna think about that this is a really big decision-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-and it's not one that you're gonna make in a hurry.
text:No, no. It's something I got to just sit there and-and kind of, um, put the pros and the cons on the table about, but-	labels:Mm-hmm.
labels:Yeah. He wasn't too happy with the exam, was he Hailey?	text:No he wasn't.
labels:Um, well the good news is that the exam's over and I don't think Jake has pneumonia. What I actually think he has is a cold. So there are some things you could do to manage his symptoms. Would you be interested in knowing?	text:Yeah, absolutely.
labels:What I would recommend is that you avoid over-the-counter cold remedies, keep him away from any friends or family who may have the flu, keep him well hydrated, um, avoid excessive dust, and avoid smoking. And at least that last one's easy because you are an ex-smoker now.	text:Well, you're right actually, I-I did quit smoking but just last week my mom took Jake for the first time. It was a Friday night, so friends were going out to celebrate a birthday.
labels:Oh, fun.	text:Yeah. At one point in the night, though, they all went out to have a cigarette and I joined them. Since then, I've been having a couple of cigarettes at night, but never near Jake and never near his clothes or his toys. I mean, I've heard about second-hand smoking. And I-I don't want to be- expose him to it, so I've been avoiding him when I smoke.
labels:All right, Well, first I'd just like to commend you for your honesty and that's really helpful information that you shared with me. Thank you for letting me know that you're smoking again and-and, um, I also appreciate the fact you're taking so many measures to protect your son from secondhand smoke. Can I give you some advice on how you could protect him, even the- even further?	text:Yeah, sure.
labels:So, my sense is that you're smoking and you're minimizing hi-his exposure by not smoking in the same room and smoking near windows. Is that-	text:Yeah.
labels:-correct?	text:Exactly.
labels:So what I would recommend then, is to move your smoking outside completely. As a smoker, the ideal situation for a smoker in the house is if their home can be made smoke-free and the smoking is moved entirely outside, especially while he's experiencing this cold.	text:Yeah, well, you know that sounds okay. While he's sick, I might be able to smoke outside in the next couple days or so, but the thing is, usually I'm craving a cigarette the most when I have a glass of wine at the end of the day. I put Jake to bed, I open up a bottle and I pour myself a glass and I'm finally able to unwind, so, I get a craving for a cigarette, so, I'm not sure long-term I'd be able to smoke outside.
labels:Okay, so, what I'm hearing you say is that, it sounds like a feasible short-term plan, not ideal and not comfortable because what you really enjoy is that cigarette with a glass of wine, kicking back up on the sofa and chilling out perhaps while you're watching TV. And to maintain that long-term outside smoking outside in Canadian winters where it's cold and snowy, not realistic.	text:Yeah, exactly and another thing is that sometimes in the morning, after I've had a couple of glasses of wine, I kinda feel tired or groggy or low on energy, so, even that I'm not sure is completely relaxing. Especially if I've had a cigarette the night before, I always feel so bad.
labels:So, on the one hand I'm hearing smoking and drinking at night as a way to chill out but at the same time the next day, you're not feeling so great.	text:Exactly.
labels:Would it be helpful to give you some information on low risk drinking guidelines?	text:Sure. I've never heard of them.
labels:Okay. Well, Hailey, what they suggest is that women don't have more than one to two standard drinks a day or a total of nine standard drinks in a week. How does that fit for you?	text:Well, usually I'm having more than two glasses but if you're saying that's gonna minimize some risk and I guess some of the grogginess I'm feeling the next morning, then maybe I should just try and have one glass of wine in the evenings?
labels:So, it sounds like you'd be open to reducing as a way to still enjoy the wine but perhaps alleviate the way you feel in the morning, some of the hangover effects that sounds like you're experiencing.	text:Yeah, I-I'd absolutely maybe reduce. I'll try my best to reduce, but I'm not sure about the smoking.
labels:Okay. So, you're gonna try to reduce the drinking, not sure about the smoking, what the plan is but I think we did agree upon earlier that you would move it outside, at least while he's sick?	text:Yeah. I think that sounds okay.
labels:That's okay. All right and, um, I guess we'll see you next week for Jake's six-month checkup. Is there anything else we could talk about that might be helpful?	text:No. I think just talking about it was helpful, you know, and I'm- I'm glad you've given me some information. Maybe just this week I can think about it a little more, you know, I-I feel pretty overwhelmed right now. There's so much to do. My days are pretty full, so, maybe I can just s-sit on it for a week.
labels:Sure, of course, Hailey a-and again I really appreciate your openness and honesty about letting me know what's going on with, you know, the stress levels and coping and drinking. I just had a thought that there's also a good mom's group, we run out of our center. So if you'd like a referral to that or some information, I'd be happy to give you and while you think about it, if you want to, um, talk about this further with one of my colleagues, I'd be happy to make you an appointment.	text:All right. That sounds good. Thanks, Dr.
labels:Huh, you feel like you dodged the bullet.	text:I really feel like I dodged the bullet. That was- that was probably the scariest like two days of my life.
labels:It feels like it was like two days was a year?	text:Yup.
labels:Ah.	text:Yeah, it went so slow.
labels:Okay.	text:Even just being here today is like minutes ticking by.
labels:Okay.	text:It's really good news.
labels:So what would have happened if you found out that you were pregnant?	text:I don't even know. I'm-I'm not ready to have a kid. I know that. I know my life is not ready for that step.
labels:Okay. That's a big step and that's not the direction you want to go in right now.	text:Yeah, no.
labels:Would you be open to kind of exploring the idea of birth control and family planning?	text:Um, I don't really want to go there. I just-- that sort of stuff just weirds me out. Yeah, I take something fun and just makes it really medical.
labels:Now, it's a discussion you don't really wanna have.	text:No.
labels:At the same time, you have some concerns about the possibility of getting pregnant.	text:Yeah, I mean I'm-I'm careful. I do what I can, but I don't wanna take anything for that.
labels:So you found some ways to prevent pregnancy up until-- well, maybe, um, you've been pretty fortunate, and then there is also some times where you feel like, "Oh, no. What if I didn't dodge the bullet?"	text:Yeah. It's-it's scary. I mean, this is the first time I've ever had that sort of feeling of "What am I gonna do?"
labels:Mm-hmm.	text:And-and that fear was like-- yeah. Up until now, I've been good, yeah.
labels:Okay. So, you've been able to kind of avoid any kind of consequences, and right now, you're not feeling that talking about birth control is something on your-your list.	text:Yeah. No, it- it's just- it's just weird for me. I don't- I don't like thinking about that stuff, yeah.
labels:Sure. I totally appreciate that, and it's your decision, Olivia. You know yourself best and what fits for you. If you ever feel like you like to open up the idea of conversation about family planning or birth control, I'd love to talk to you about that another time.	text:Yeah, maybe another time. Just, I'm not ready for it.
labels:Okay.	text:I'm not ready for that conversation right now.
labels:Okay. I respect that. Thanks though for coming in to see me today.	text:Yeah.
labels:And I'm glad that this appointment was a positive one for you.	text:Thank you.
labels:Yeah. Well, the good news is he doesn't have pneumonia. It's just an upper re-respiratory tract infection and a cold. So there's some things you can do to make- to help him get better. You can avoid excessive dust. You can keep him hydrated, avoid over-the-counter cold remedies. Keep him away from people who have flu or cold-like symptoms and avoid smoke. And the last one should be easy because you quit smoking during your pregnancy.	text:Well, you're right. I-I did quit smoking when I was pregnant, but actually, um, a couple of weeks ago, I went out, my mom was able to take Jake for the night and my friends they were having a birthday party and we had a couple of glasses of wine and it felt like old times. So before I knew it, I was out having a cigarette with them. And since then I've been having a couple of cigarettes a day, you know, just at the end of the day after I put Jake to bed. But that sounds like it has nothing to do with what you're talking about, right?
labels:No, wait a minute. That has everything to do with what we're talking about. I can't believe at the end of this appointment, you're just slipping in the fact that you've resumed smoking again. That's very, very important information for me to know. And I'd like to spend some time talking about it now.	text:Well, I had no idea that it was such a big deal. I-I didn't think it would have anything to do with Jake getting sick or, you know, hurting him.
labels:Come on, Hailey. You're here because you thought he had pneumonia. You're telling me that Jake can't breathe, you're concerned about his breathing. And then you just slip in the fact that you're smoking cigarettes and you think there's no relationship? Do I really need to review all the risks of smoking in front of your-your child or exposing him to secondhand smoke not to mention the risks that you're posing to yourself and your own health?	text:Well, you know, I-I was doing perfectly well. It was just when I went out with my friends and, you know, usually, I'm fine with the cravings. It's just when I have a glass of wine at the end of the day. And if I have more than two or three, I just get that craving for a cigarette. And if I have cigarettes in the house, it just happens. You know, I'm doing pretty good.
labels:So it sounds like if you have alcohol, then smoking is very difficult to avoid and you know what you need to do. You need to go home and as your-your son's doctor, I need to tell you you need to go home and throw out those cigarettes. You need to quit.	text:Okay. Um, well, yeah, I-I guess I can throw the cigarettes. And tomorrow night when I have my glass of wine, I'll-I'll just try to avoid that craving.
labels:And let's talk some more about wine. You keep throwing wine into the conversation. It sounds like it's become a significant part of your daily routine. How much are you drinking?	text:Only a couple of drinks a night. You know, it's pretty rare if I have anything more than that. It's just my way of relaxing at the end of the day. It's been so stressful since Jake came along. It's just how I fall asleep at the end of the night.
labels:Well, no one said motherhood was going to be easy, Hailey. So let's talk about these drinks. Are we talking about the-the low-risk drinking guidelines, one to two standard drinks a night or are we talking about a mug of Margarita's?	text:Well.
labels:What are you drinking? What's the quantity that you're drinking.	text:I guess about- I have about a half a glass a night and maybe two. Very rarely I'll have more than that. You know, it just helps me kind of relax.
labels:There's other ways to relax. There's yoga. There's deep breathing. You need to stop raising the roof and raise your kid. This is not okay. You're not just worrying about Hailey anymore. It's Hailey and Jake. You're a mom now.	text:I didn't know it was such a big deal. I-I never thought that there would be any impacts on Jake because of it.
labels:I'm trying not to be hard on you, Hailey, but I've got to tell you as a position, it's a very big deal. Your drinking and your tobacco use are red flags for me and they need to stop immediately. So we've already talked about your plan for smoking. You're going home. You're throwing out your cigarettes. You're putting on the patches. What's the plan for the alcohol?	text:I guess I'll do the same thing. I'll go home and throw out the bottles of wine and stop having a glass at the end of the day.
labels:Sounds good. And if you need to relax, go for a walk, join a moms group, read a book. How about you come back in a week when we have Jake's six months checkup and you can let me know how that quit plan is going.	text:Okay, I'll try my best.
text:Good morning.	labels:What have you got in mind, what do you want from us?
text:Well, I need some medication if you can offer me some.	labels:Absolutely, we're in the right place for that.
text:And, uh, whatever else you can do just to get me to go smoke-free.	labels:Okay. Well, just remind me again why it is you want to stop.
text:It's, uh, just these days-- I think these days I'm-I'm finding that, um, I'm smoking 20, 30 a day, I'm getting sick of it. It's, you know, I've seen my friends have stopped smoking too and it's kind of they're looking at me weird these days like I'm the only one left who's still smoking.	labels:Oh, good, and so feeling under pressure here.
text:Especially the other night I was at the restaurant, it was a bit-- you know, it was a bit embarrassing I'm the only one walk walking out.	labels:And so that-that can't feel a little uncomfortable being by yourself. So that sounds like one of the reasons you have to quit is it's a little getting smelly and it's getting embarrassing.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Any other reasons?
text:Um, it's expensive these days.	labels:How much does it actually cost you a week?
text:It's-it's about-- Um, I'll buy and go through a pack a day, so it's almost £7.	labels:£7 a week or a day?
text:£7 a day today, so-	labels:So your pack a day—
text:-you're talking about £40, uh—	labels:£50 a week.
text:£50 a week.	labels:Even more mess, you see.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So we're talking about spending £50 a week-
text:Yeah.	labels:-being one of the few left smoking in your crowd, and not liking the smell. That sounds like three reasons.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:Do you think that's enough to make you say goodbye to cigarettes?
text:Yeah.	labels:Great, okay. So have you got a date in mind when you'd like to stop smoking?
text:Well, what you do-- What do you suggest?	labels:Generally, it works well if you find a time when you're not under a huge amount of other stresses and strains.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:What are the main reasons why you actually smoke? What do you enjoy most about it?
text:Um, it's just entertainment. Something, um, when I bored, it's got-- I've got-- I smoke-	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:-or sometimes I go out, but as I said, I'm the only one kind of outside.	labels:Okay. What do you think you'll miss most about it?
text:The-- Um, it takes away a lot of my stresses.	labels:Mm-hmm, what sort of stresses?
text:Just, uh, when I- when I go down, uh, for-for a break at work.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:I never go down, I just need a break away from it all, just shut off. So, uh, I-I really enjoyed that. The cigarette just helps me calm down.	labels:Yeah. And what is your favorite cigarette of the day?
text:It's definitely the one at the end of the evening.	labels:Okay, so the end of the day-
text:Yeah.	labels:-the thing that helps you just unwind, put an end to the work section and move into your own time.
text:Yeah.	labels:Okay. So after you've had the quit date, what do you think you might do when it it's the first day at work and it's time to go home if you're not gonna have a cigarette?
text:I guess, um, I'll just- I'll just have, you know, some fresh air as well, but this time without a cigarette in my hand but to try and give myself regular breaks maybe, I don't know.	labels:Okay.
text:It's one of those tough things.	labels:Have you managed to stop smoking in the past?
text:I've managed for a couple of weeks.	labels:Okay. And what got you back?
text:It was, um-- To be honest, it was stress from an argument with my partner I remember.	labels:So something just happened-
text:Yeah.	labels:-so it took you back into it. All right. Let me just make sure I've understood what's going on here. You really want to stop smoking because you're kind of the last guy in your group still smoking, it costs a lot of money, and you don't really like the smell.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:The main reason that you smoke is because, at the end of the day, it gives you a kind of relaxation, and if there's quite a little stress that's going on which you're using cigarettes to help you cope with.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:What you'd like to do is stop and you'd like to sort of like choose a time to quit when it's going to be there's not as much stress around as possible. When do you think would be a good time for you to choose to be your quit date?
text:I guess, um, at the weekend I've got a party coming up.	labels:Okay.
text:So, uh, maybe Monday morning.	labels:So Monday morning after the party will be a good day, and that's next week. Okay. Now, one of the things that we do in the pharmacy is recommend that you use medication to help you. You know this increases your chance of success and it makes it more likely that can manage any cravings that come along. A lot of people like using nicotine replacement therapy which comes in a variety of formats like patches, gum, you've probably seen people using any of these products. And other options are tablets which you can get from the GP.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:So, yeah, again-- Um, so have you something in mind that you might like to use to help you through managing the cravings?
text:Yeah. I'm thinking, um, one of these patches.	labels:Okay. So a patch is something you've already seen, and-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and, again, I'll get some out and I'll show you what they look like. This course of medication lasts for 10 to 12 weeks. And we strongly recommend that people stay on the whole course of medication and that that gives you the best chance of success. Stopping smoking is not easy but it's possible and with the type of support that we offer here in the pharmacy, you absolutely make your chance of success four times greater than trying on your own, so, that's why it's really good that you've come to see me. Now, what you said is you really want to do it and that next week sounds like a good day for you to start because the party is over and done with.
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:You've got the time at the end of the day when you finish work, which might be the first time you've gone without a cigarette. So, what I'd like to recommend is that you use two products perhaps and I'm thinking of you're having a patch and then suggesting that you might use something that you can top up with. Often, a person who smokes knows exactly what it feels like when they're craving for a cigarette. What does it feel like to you, when you can't have a cigarette and you want one?
text:I just get irritable.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:And that's exactly one of the symptoms of nicotine withdrawal that I'm looking to stop happening to you.
text:Hmm.	labels:So, I would strongly recommend that you have the patch. I'll talk to you about how to use that and that we have another product that I leave you to use as when any of those feelings of irritation are coming up, particularly in that first week.
text:Okay.	labels:So, you're happy with the date for [unintelligible 00:06:16]?
text:Yeah, absolutely.	labels:Okay and would you like to come back and see me again?
text:Well, definitely.	labels:And what would you like me to do if you don't come back?
text:A nice phone call.	labels:I'd be very happy to do that.	episode:True
text:Well, I suppose you're gonna give me a row and tell me it's all self-inflicted and I've got to change my ways and give up the things I enjoy.	labels:Actually, I'm not going to do that because you're the boss. It's up to you what you want to do with you about your own health.
text:The doc said I've got to take pills for the rest of my life.	labels:You don't seem too happy about that.
text:Well, I feel fine, but the-the doc said it could save my life.	labels:Well, there's a lot of things you can do yourself that will improve the situation as well. So what we can do today is wee up some of those things, smoking, diet, exercise, weight, loss, all those kinds of things. So we're just gonna start and see how you feel as we go.
text:Okay, what should I do first?	labels:Well, it's very much up to you, you're the boss of your own life. Where would you like to start?
text:Where do you think I should start?	labels:Well, I could give you my opinion. Um, and I can give you lots of information, but I think you know the score pretty well. And I think you'd know what I would say.
text:Yeah, uh, you tell me, stop smoking and lose weight and take more exercise, wouldn’t you?	labels:Absolutely. Spot on. So stopping smoking would have a huge impact, that would have a big impact very early on. Losing weight would also have a big impact because that would help with your blood pressure, your cholesterol, and also lower your diabetes risk. So what-what'd you think about those things? Uh,
text:Uh, I loved to lose weight but it's so hard giving up the things you enjoy.	labels:It’s really tough. It's hard to know where to start, isn't it?
text:I really should do. Or shouldn't I,	labels:How important is it for you then to lose weight?
text:Well, I'd like to see my children settled and my grandchildren growing up and I should,suppose I should be an example to them.	labels:So can it be in there for your-your family's important to you?
text:Yes. I want to be there for them, but not a burden to them.	labels:Yeah. So w-where do you think you can start with that?
text:Uh, I've been thinking about them a lot lately, and I want to be there for them. So have to do what I need to, to improve my health.	labels:What's kind of the first thing you might think about doing?
text:You know, to start with, I could cut down on my drinking. Um, that's adding to my weight and to my blood pressure, isn't it?	labels:Yeah. That would be a really good place to start, mm-hmm.
text:In fact, I think I'll try and cut out the booze altogether. My wife says I drink too much at the weekends.	labels:So I think it should be really supportive of that then.
text:And I suppose I could cut out the crisps and pies at works.	labels:So what would you do to make sure you didn't get hungry at work?
text:I'm gonna start having soup at lunchtime. I suppose a big bowl of soup would be far better than two pies.	labels:Yeah. Well, a big bowl of vegetable soup. You could probably count that as one or maybe even two of your five a day. So it'd be a really good place to start. Anything else you could think about doing?
text:Well, there's one, one thing uh, I've done already, I've stopped adding salt to my food. The doc said that would help with my blood pressure.	labels:Well, that's good. That's probably benefited you already. And the other thing you might not be aware of is that salt intake is linked to loss of calcium from our bones, which makes the bones more fragile. So reducing your salt intake will really help with that too.
text:Well, I didn't know that. Um, it's good to know. I'll tell my wife, um, she's still very fond of her salt and her mother had osteoporosis.	labels:So well, maybe you can help her as well and that would be good. Well, I think you've got off to a really great start, Mr. Green. You're very well aware of what you-you need to do, and you've obviously thought about it and got some good plans in place. So you're going to reduce your-your alcohol intake, you've already started by reducing your salt intake. Um, perhaps when we meet up next time we could talk a little bit about smoking and exercise as well, when you're ready for that. So how do you feel now?
text:I feel if I go ahead and do as I say with cutting down on the pies, the crisps, um, and cutting out the booze, I feel I'm making a start but let's take it a step at a time and see how it goes. But, uh, the next day when we look at it, the figures might be a lot better.	labels:That's great. So should we meet up at the same time next week then?
text:Yes, that’s fine with me.	labels:That’s great. All the very best then.
text:Mm.	labels:Yeah. And you have some ideas about that and some experiences about that. So today I wanna- be good for us to talk about that and, um, I'm really interested to know what you've been thinking about in terms of what you may wanna change in your life 'cause we're gonna be working together for a while here.
text:Right. Neat. What, um, what have I changed, what am I—	labels:What you've been thinking about, um, over the last little while about getting your life back on track. 'Cause I noticed you've—
text:I've been thinking about how easy it would be to deal P again.	labels:Yeah.
text:I mean, I've been thinking about, um, how I could actually set myself up the right way doing it the wrong way.	labels:Sure. So what I'm picking up is-is that-that-that's a life that you know a lot about.
text:Mm.	labels:And you can make lots of money and set yourself up well. What's the other side, because I guess when I talk to guys like yourself who have done time, often they're thinking about actually, mm, maybe life can be with different. So I'm wondering where-where you're at with the kind of thinking about—
text:Well, at the end of, you know, that last week inside, I was- I had that kind of, okay, what's next buzz? And, you know, it just doesn't work out here.	labels:Okay.
text:I don't have a, uh, uh, I don't know what that is.	labels:Sure. So life on the outside is pretty different than the kind of-
text:Yes.	labels:-the expectation of life on the inside something?
text:Yeah, it's worse.	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:So tell me how you've been managing. 'Cause I don't know if you'd been back dealing? How have you been managing to-to-to—
text:I haven't yet, I mean-	labels:Okay.
text:-the, uh, the offer's there.	labels:Yeah?
text:Um, I don't know why I haven't said that I will yet but I mean-	labels:Uh, tell me-
text:-it's there.	labels:It's there and-and-and you've a lot of contacts?
text:Yeah.	labels:You've been in the system, so lots of context. So this isn't a new challenge for you.
text:No.	labels:So what stopped you over the last-- How long have you been out now?
text:How long have I been out?	labels:Yeah.
text:Three weeks, one day.	labels:Three weeks, isn't it?
text:Three weeks, one day.	labels:So what's been there? What's it about that you haven't done in three weeks one day?
text:I don't know.	labels:22 days you've actually made a decision not to-to pick up your old life and continue on.
text:Um, I'd- I- you know, I kind of told myself not to, you know, just before I left. And then I'm just kind of with it and I don't quite know why. [clears throat] I dunno, if, uh, there's no real reason why I haven't yet. It's just that I don't- I just don't think it'll work the way I always dream it will you know, I see myself up like, whatever, if I do that again, the next leg is a long one. A real long one.	labels:Okay.
text:And I-I can't go back there. There's no way I'm going back there.	labels:Right. So the one hand you've-you-you could sit yourself up and-and take the risk, but on the other hand, you know, that actually it might not last?
text:No, never lasts.	labels:Never lasts. Mm. You seem like a bit of a crossroads to me.
text:Yep. I've been in crossroads for 12 years.	labels:Mm. But there've been times when those crossroads would be more sort of focused than other times.
text:Yeah. And- [crosstalk]	labels:Yeah. And it sounds like maybe like-
text:-sort of opposite, yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:You know, we're in the middle, you know, and it's actually at the moment, I guess.	labels:Yeah.
text:But I don't know. You know, that's quite clear that no fucking idea.	labels:Okay. Okay. So—
text:Do you have an idea?	labels:No. Well, I've-I've got lots of ideas, but I'm really interested to hearing your ideas kind of first though because you know, and there might be some things that we can work on.
text:Mm.	labels:But I guess what I'm really interested in is-is you've made a commitment 22 days, drug-free. Haven't gone back into that lifestyle. What-what's keeping you, 'cause you're at the crossroads, you kind of just pause there at the moment. I'm not sure about this other bit over here. What keeping you in that place?
text:Fiona?	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:Tell me about Fiona?
text:She's told me that it's over if I do it. You know, I mean, she-- What tell you about, Fiona I mean she's been with me. She's the one who stayed through all the shit. And I owe her-	labels:Okay.
text:-something.	labels:Okay. So you've been with Fiona for how long?
text:12 years.	labels:12 years. Okay. So she's stood by you then for the time, [crosstalk] but this time she said, it happens again I'm out of here?
text:Yeah. She's actually got the black and white line down now.	labels:Okay. And it sounds like you're listening to that black and white line.
text:It's pretty she- you know, she could be pretty full-on.	labels:Yeah, yeah.
text:Yeah, so it's hard to ignore that line.	labels:Yeah.
text:I mean. And it comes with a whole lot of different rules, and you know, she's never been quite like she is now.	labels:Okay. So something's changed in your relationship between you, yeah?
text:Yeah. I think she has. I don't think I have.	labels:Okay. So what's Fiona want you from you?
text:She just wants me. I mean, she just wants someone to be there. Me. She-she remembers me and she wants- she wants him.	labels:She wants him. So which him does she want, Daryl?
text:The one that, you know—	labels:Does she want the- did she want the-the him that she fell in love with and saw great things in?
text:Yeah, that's the one.	labels:Or does she want the-the-the-the him that's- that keeps on getting into trouble?
text:No, no. No one would want him. I don't want him. He's a fuckwit, right? She wants the one that she fell in love with.	labels:Okay.
text:Yeah.	labels:So what's it gonna take to reclaim this Daryl that she fell in love with?
text:If I had the answer to that, I wouldn't need to be sitting here.	labels:Sure, yeah.
text:And I mean, I honest- I don't know, man. I don't know. I-I wish I knew somewhere I could start that, you know, could give it to her, but I-I can't. I-I don't know.	labels:All right. Well, let's-let's just play with this idea a little bit, Daryl. So what did Fiona fall in love with? What were the qualities of Daryl that she said, "This is him"?
text:I was pretty romantic. I mean, I was pretty quite smooth, and, um, you know, I was on top of my game, like, she- and she loved it. And we used to laugh in the [unintelligible 00:06:45], you know? And just- it was always really sweet, and people used to say, "Oh, man, you two. You two have just got it," you know? And we lost it, so whatever that was, that's what she wants. We were young. How do you become young? Uh, you know, I'm old, and we'll keep growing old, but you know?	labels:I know.
text:Like if I'm not careful, I will be.	labels:Sure. Everyone will age, but that will happen on time.
text:Yeah, certainly.	labels:Um, but that's okay. So-so it's she fell in love with this, the sense of fun, the sense of Daryl, and things have changed, but she's still with you?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah. And you're still with her?
text:Yeah, yep.	labels:Yeah. So catch me up with the conversations you've had with Fiona about this crossroads you're at. You know, these 22 days, you haven't gone back, you've coming out and you're not back? You could pick up this dealing quite easily and probably some workout here tomorrow and get back into it.
text:You know what? She hasn't even talked about the dealing, like, she won't even broach that subject. That's how black and white she is. She's- she'll be- she offers suggestions, you know? What I could do, and- or I kind of go with that, but none of them are-- You know, it's lovely that she's really finding things, but they're not the things. I mean, it-- I started kind of placating her and making it okay to keep giving me suggestions, but like, I need to come up with something because it's like awesome love, but you know, not in love, and she's getting sick of it already.	labels:Okay. All right. So-so back together, things are starting to get tense at home, and your relationship a little bit?
text:A little bit that. Yeah, little-little bit tense. Yeah, that's fair.	labels:Yeah. Don't put words in your mouth. I'm sure if that is—
text:No, they are.	labels:Oh, yeah? Yeah?
text:I mean, not like they have been because we've only just started on the new road, but I mean, yeah, tense is the right word.	labels:Second, I'd like to talk, Daryl, about this all- whole idea, that's this crossroads idea, yep? So on the one hand here, you've got this 12 year history of being in the other system and done some time and being away from Fiona, but you're now back, sitting back together, and you've got some choice about where to go. So, in that 'where to go', what ideas have you been thinking about in terms of where this-this Daryl, non-dealing [crosstalk] guy—
text:Well, I don't know. I haven't got little, um, nuggets of where I could go. I've just got like this feeling that I should go somewhere.	labels:Okay. Yep. So a part of you knows you need to go something different, but the direction doesn't seem to be that clear at the moment?
text:Yeah.	labels:It [unintelligible 00:09:33] picking up?
text:Yeah. No idea.	labels:No idea. Okay. So I'm wondering, you've been in the system a while. You're now 34, is it right from the pick-up?
text:[nods].	labels:Yeah. So, you know, often at 34, guys start to think about being with a girl in their life and what's important. And-and you would have also been part- not as a guy, so they've actually made some shifts and changes and thought, "Time to move on".
text:Yeah. Well, um—	labels:And now you've got—
text:Not many.	labels:Not many?
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:But some.
text:Um, oh, I've got. Yeah, one. [chuckles]	labels:One?
text:One.	labels:Yeah.
text:Mm, yeah.	labels:Yeah?
text:Okay, so, um—	labels:Tell me something about that.
text:Well, he-he was- he was inside with me the first time I was ever inside, and now he's a drug counselor.	labels:Okay.
text:So, he's the- he did it.	labels:He did it?
text:I don't know how the fuck he did that, but, 'cause because he wasn't even a real addict, he was just-- Well, I mean, I don't know. He's very good with people.	labels:Yeah.
text:Really good at talking, and, uh, but anyway, I don't know how he did it.	labels:Cool. So how interested would you be to find out more information about how he did it? 'Cause I'm thinking about this is someone who you know, you've done time with, got a relationship.
text:Yeah, but I can't ever be a drug counselor.	labels:No, I'm not suggesting you-- No, not about being a drug counselor, but about he made that transition from-from being involved in crime-
text:Yeah.	labels:-to a transition about being in a different place.
text:Yeah. I think he would have found some higher power. They find-- I'm not gonna find one of them.	labels:Okay, no 12-step higher power idea?
text:Yeah.	labels:So that might work for him, but what might work for you?
text:I don't know. That's why I'm here.	labels:Sure.
text:I don't know what that is.	labels:Okay, so part of being here with me, and the work we might do, will be to find- try and find- search for that-
text:Okay.	labels:-thing. Whatever it is.
text:Good luck.	labels:Well, it's a search, isn't it?
text:Yeah, I don't mean to be rude-	labels:No.
text:-but I do mean it's a big ask.	labels:Yep, it is a big ask. So what qualities would you need to have to-to go there?
text:Fucking guts.	labels:Guts? Yeah?
text:Is it a quality?	labels:I think it is.
text:Yeah, I'd need some of them.	labels:Yeah? So you're the sort of guy, Daryl, with guts?
text:Am I?	labels:Yeah.
text:No, not yet.	labels:Not yet?
text:Well, no I'm not.	labels:Yeah?
text:No, I don't have that-that-that much courage.\	labels:Yet you're sitting here with me today-
text:Oh, I have to.	labels:-and-and-and you're talking about stuff.
text:Yeah.	labels:Well, you're sitting here, and you're talking with me-
text:Oh, okay.	labels:-about stuff that's-that's quite deep-
text:Yeah.	labels:-in a way. Um, that takes guts. That takes courage.
text:All right.	labels:In my view, it does.
text:Okay.	labels:'Cause you could've come in here and said-
text:It's a bit awkward.	labels:-"Look, Ken, you know, I'll come in, report in, I'm outta here."
text:Ah, yeah. I could've done that	labels:You could've done that, but you're not. So I'm wondering what's different? 'Cause you may have done that in the past, I don't know, Daryl, with other people like me, but-but sounds like something's different this time.
text:I'm older, you know? It's not as much fun.	labels:Yeah?
text:I used to take the piss outta you guys-	labels:Yeah.
text:-all day long. We all do, but-	labels:Sure.
text:-it's not funny. I mean, and you're-you're a good guy, I imagine. I mean, in fact, you don't deserve my shit. I just-- I don't know. Good luck.	labels:I kind of see a sense of sadness there when you have to kind of think about this.
text:Oh, sadness. You know, I don't wanna wallow, you know? You know, you've gotta take, you know-- You make your own opportunity in life, don't you?	labels:Yeah.
text:I just never did.	labels:Okay. So I'm interested in this idea, let's, uh-- Opportunities come and go all the time.
text:Do they?	labels:They do.
text:All right. Not to me.	labels:Well you said before you had an opportunity to pick up and start dealing again.
text:Oh, yeah. Oh, heaps of those opportunities.	labels:And-and so-so-so there's opportunities- there's opportunities in one world, and I'm wondering about what might make it hard to see opportunities in a different world?
text:Yeah, well, the different world isn't offering me opportunities. The different world is offering me a night shift, and minimum wage, and, you know, nothing. So it's like, set-set yourself up, set your goal up, or, um, don't, and that's your-your pro-social living, and that's your, you know, old behaviors.	labels:Sure, sure. You're in the system-
text:Mm-hmm.	labels:-you're not in the system. Pick up that, where is it gonna take you?
text:The system?	labels:Yeah, what-what's gonna happen if you start dealing again?
text:Man, I've been fighting that system-	labels:Yeah.
text:-and all it takes me back is to the-the inside-	labels:Okay, okay.
text:-I mean—	labels:So-So again, I'm-I'm wondering about this other world, and you're saying it doesn't look to attractive at the moment.
text:Well, I can't see it.	labels:You can't se it?
text:You know what, if I knew what they'd look like-	labels:Yeah?
text:-I-I might, you know, buy that.	labels:Yeah? You just described to me how it looked like a minute ago.
text:Did I?	labels:Minimum wage-
text:Oh yeah.	labels:-night shift, petrol station.
text:Yeah, that's not much fun. That doesn't look very good.	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah, that looks really hard.	labels:Yeah? It is really hard.
text:I know that's the right thing, uh, don't get me wrong.	labels:Sure.
text:That is gut right there, going to a job you hate, going home, cooking yet missus a dinner, looking after your kids. I mean, that is-- That's what it real mean does, but I don't have that-- Th-those guts to do- to do what you do.	labels:Sure. We talked about courage before and you've got the guts to be talking with me about this stuff today, and I'm wondering if you actually do have some courage to think about these ideas. I'm not saying that pumping gas at minimum wage is where you wanna go, but-but the guts to actually start steeping into this other world. I wonder if you do have, I'm-I'm-I'm just not sure.
text:I-- Hmm, maybe.	labels:Maybe. You're not convinced at the moment, I understand that and, um—
text:No. You know, convince me because, you know, I kind of want to be.	labels:Sure. Well, it's hard to me to convince you-
text:Right.	labels:-'cause this is your life and this is your story, and you-you've got to walk your life and I can't walk your life for you. I only walk my. And so, but I can walk with you on this life to try and think about-- 'Cause I-I-- You know, I-I've no interest in actually you falling over and going back into-into a lifestyle a crime 'cause I know where it'll take you. And I'm hearing that with your relationship, where it's going to take your relationship too, [unintelligible 00:16:39] got the bottom line drawn pretty clearly.
text:Mm.	labels:So it seems like what's gonna push in this direction, just tip that balance a little bit to give this other world of go? Because it is new, it's different. It means doing stuff, a lot of stuff actually that-that's kind of mundane.
text:It is the little things, yeah, like waking up, and having a cup of tea and sitting on the porch is kind of cool.	labels:It's kind of cool?
text:Yeah.	labels:Not part of on the wire?
text:No, you don't get to sit outside-	labels:No?
text:-on the porch.	labels:You don't. And who's sitting on the porch with you?
text:No one. It's morning, it's just me.	labels:Mm-hmm.
text:Birds, trees, yada yada.	labels:Cool. So I'm picking up this world actually has the freedom to you to be your own man?
text:Mm, you know, maybe.	labels:Maybe?
text:I don't-- You know, that-that was nice. If it was full of bits like that, sure, but I mean, you know, eventually you have to go off to your job and-	labels:Yeah?
text:-you know, pay your-your wages, I mean your-your mortgage and-and-	labels:Yeah.
text:-it's just massive.	labels:Yeah it is. It is.
text:It is.	labels:Absolutely massive. And, uh-- So, is there a challenge you're up to, to start creating some-some-some of that sort of world for Fiona? 'Cause I'm hearing that—
text:You know, people like me are unaccepted into that world though. You know? I've got-- I don't have qualifications. All my mates are in Australia working awesome jobs, mining for 160K a year, you know? Just being men digging holes. Like, if I could do that, yeah, all good but fuck, I have just come out of prison, I don't have any NCEA. I, uh, I had one opportunity and I fucked that because I can't do night shift 'cause I'm lazy. You know? Maybe the world is giving me opportunities and I just don't need them. Maybe I can't do that.	labels:Sure. So what I'm hearing is, you're not convinced at the moment.
text:No, I'm definitely not convinced.	labels:No. So what would convince you to-to make that shift? 'Cause I hear a lot of kind of-- And in this hard, like, y-you've done time and then once you've got a record, the employers- you know, we know, I know that. That's-that's not easy. You can't just wonder into a job, a high-paying job and go, "Pick me, pick me, pick me." I know that.
text:No.	labels:You know that.
text:Yeah, I know.	labels:So, um-- And-and maybe it's about small steps and first steps.
text:Yeah. I mean, yeah, it is obviously, it is first steps, but I mean, what's that? What's the first step into the pro-social life?	labels:Well, you trying to get a job, maybe and get into some routine.
text:I just know if I get a job that I hate, I just won't do it.	labels:Okay.
text:You know, I can make in an hour what I can make in a night or a week of nights. It's pretty-- You know, from where I'm from that a really-- You know, there's no decision at all, that's just like, what are you up to if you don't?	labels:Yeah. I'm confused though at the moment because you're saying, "Yeah, I could make in a night what you make in a week," but you've haven't. 22-22 days-
text:Yeah.	labels:-and you haven't done that. So-so tell me what that's about.
text:I just told myself I wouldn't this time and then Fiona said, "You will not" this time.	labels:So you told yourself you wouldn't, so you're once you- you're the sort of guy that once you make a decision you're gonna go, you're staunch with that decision?
text:Yeah, even if it's the wrong one, yes.	labels:Oh, it's a decision whether it's right or wrong-- It's not gonna be-
text:Yeah, but I'm that kinda guy.	labels:Yeah, you're that kinda guy okay, so once you make a decision. So you made a decision that you're not gonna- you're not gonna go back to dealing?
text:Oh no there wasn't a decision to made, I just said, "I won't yet".	labels:Yet.
text:Yeah, I said yet.	labels:You're keeping the door open-
text:Yeah.	labels:-at the moment, is what I'm picking up.
text:I hate that.	labels:Yeah, okay, so that will be a call you-you've got to make.
text:Mm.	labels:I'm-I'm not gonna- I'm not gonna make that call. You'll make that call, but there's a consequence of making that call, and there's big consequences more time probably and Fiona not being around. On the other hand, what I'm picking up is a call to-to do some- do some stuff that may not be racy and exciting and in the big dollars, but me being with Fiona and engaging in this transition into a-a different life.
text:Mm, yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:And we're still no closer.	labels:No.
text:But I mean yeah it's there.	labels:But we're talking about it.
text:Yeah.	labels:So how much time have you been talking about this-
text:Oh, fuck.	labels:-position?
text:With anyone other than Fiona? No time at all, I'd say for about 10 hours with you.	labels:Okay-okay, so the fact we're even having a conversation about it, it's kind of interesting?
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, so I wanna summarize, Daryl, what-what I picked up so far and then just so I make sure I'm really listening to you well 'cause it's important, isn't it? 'Cause, you know, it's important you're listened to-
text:Mm.	labels:-by people me. So what I'm picking up is-is-is that if you've-you've got this long 12-year history, you can make some big money or you can dealing, doing crime, that stuff, I'm-I'm picking up that Fiona's set the bottom line, is if you go back in that lifestyle, she's out of here, yet she stayed here for 13, 12, 13 years?
text:Yeah, 12, nearly 13.	labels:Nearly 13 years, so and-and so-so she stuck with you, and I'm pick up that's important to you, um, and-and-and yet you talk about it, it just seems easy, this bit over here, this whole lifestyle.
text:Mm.	labels:This other lifestyle over here though when we talk about, actually thinking about, you know, doing stuff, doing the stuff that-that everybody else generally does, [unintelligible 00:22:30] will gets on doing, it doesn't have that same kinda seem to excitement, and it doesn't seem to be a-a starting point for you over here.
text:Uh, that it-it does kinda seem exciting.	labels:Oh, it does?
text:It does, because it's so different.	labels:Right, okay.
text:And I'm kinda over that one.	labels:Okay, you're over that one, okay. So, let's start to think about what might be the first step.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, with while going in, I think you got a high steep.
text:Okay, I.	labels:Yeah, a steep, you see before you had a mate who turned his back on offending.
text:Yeah.	labels:And for him this 12-- You wondered that the 12-step stuff working for him.
text:Yeah-yeah, it does work for him.	labels:Yeah, maybe that, I'm wondering the conve- the conversation with him that might be around actually how did he do it, and how did he stay without slipping back across the line, 'cause like-like get this crossroads you've got the path and go the other path and go here, so I'm wondering about conversation with him, what would it take to have that conversation?
text:Uh, ringing him.	labels:Ringing him?
text:Mm, yeah.	labels:Yeah. You seem a little surprised, I'm-I'm [crosstalk] wondering about, surprising face.
text:You-you know, it was a long time ago that we were inside. I just know that's what he's doing. It would be pretty odd calling but the- he'd probably be okay with it.	labels:So possibility to call?
text:Possibility to call yeah.	labels:Yeah there's possible.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah, okay, and Fiona's been pretty staunch.
text:Mm.	labels:Is someone who actually who has some pretty clear ideas about where she wants you as a couple to go-
text:Mm.	labels:-I get a sense.
text:Yeah.	labels:Yeah.
text:Well, I just have to do what I'm told. I don't know.	labels:Yeah, but I'm picking up though behind that doing what you're told, she's got some hopes.
text:Oh, yeah, I was being, um, chipping, I mean, yeah she has more hopes than me, you know.	labels:So what will it take for you to start thinking about some of her hopes and sharing some of her hopes?
text:Um, like I do- I do but what it would take, you know, I mean, that's pretty freaking scary shit.	labels:Yeah?
text:Yeah. And I would never admit to that.	labels:You said before you're sort of guy that once you make a decision you're pretty staunch with that decision.
text:Yeah.	labels:So if you made a decision to go there, it might be a scary as shit but again it seems that, uh, it could work if see it look, this is important, this relationship's important, let me go for—
text:Yeah, but my-when I made my decision to not do that yet like I was very clear I understood I know that picture. If I'm gonna make a decision to do this, I kinda need to really-really know what that is. You know, not only to talk I mean-	labels:Sure.
text:-what is the whole plan to-to call-call up you know and say, hey bro, hey bro, uh, how did you do that? I mean, really? Is it—	labels:Yeah. That's-that's what I'm thinking- I'm thinking actually. Here's someone that actually has made a different decision then, uh, it sounds like that's the pathway that starts over here and I'm wondering. I wonder whether you might have wisdom about what it's like to t-to tread that path.
text:Yeah, like, I guess I could be wondering that too.	labels:So you know there's a part of you going, I was thinking in this place that's hard work.
text:Hmm.	labels:And this is a pretty lonely road to-to walk by yourself. I'm wondering who else might be around you that might actually walk with you?
text:There's Fiona.	labels:Yeah.
text:[unintelligible 00:26:37] getting out so what-what he did. Um, dad's only as mean. There's Fiona.	labels:You know maybe they'll walk that road with you too.
text:Yeah, okay, uh, all right, yeah. All right.	labels:There's a couple of people.
text:Yeah.	labels:If you want to do that. It gotta be your call.
